FROM  
(TEST 1 - page 1 - 35 (18/01/24) - Question 1a to 8f)
(TEST 2 - page 36 - 96 (25/01/24) - Question 1a to 8f)

Lecturer said - "Whenever I ask you to draw and explain using diagrams, you should know that the diagram carries more marks" 

1a. What is Net-Centric Computing?
 b. What is Computing?
 c. What is the CPU?
    i. What are the operations performed by the CPU and Explain them?
2a. What is a Multiprocessor System?
 b. List the 2 types of multiprocessor systems 
    - Explain both

3a. Draw a diagram of a Loosely coupled system and a Tightly coupled system
 b. In a tabular format. List 4 key differences between the Loosely coupled and the 
    tightly coupled system?

4a. What is Centralised Computing?
 b. Explain the architecture used by Centralised Computing
 c. List the 3 characteristics of Centralised Computing
 d. Draw a diagram of Centralised Computing
 e. List 4 advantages of Centralised Computing and 3 disadvantages

5a. What is Decentralised Computing?
 b. Explain the architecture used by Decentralised Computing?
 c. List the 3 characteristics of Decentralised Computing?
 d. Draw a diagram of Decentralised Computing
 e. List 4 advantages of Decentralized Computing and 3 disadvantages
 
6a. What is Parallel Computing?
 b. Explain the technique used in Parallel Computing?
 c. List 4 reasons why one should pick parallel computing?
 d. Draw a diagram of Parallel Computing
 
7a. What is Distributed Computing?
 b. Draw a diagram of a distributed database system?
 c. List the 2 characteristics of distributed computing
 d. In a tabular format. List 5 differences between Parallel Computing vs Distributed Computing?
 e. List 4 advantages of Distributed Computing and 3 disadvantages

8a. List all 5 Distributed Computing models?
 b. Discuss the Minicomputer Model and draw it's diagram?
 c. Discuss the Workstation Model and draw it's diagram?
 d. Discuss the Workstation-Server Model and draw it's diagram?
 e. Discuss the Processor-pool Model and draw it's diagram?
 f. Discuss the Hybrid Model?

9a. What is the Operating System?
 b. List 3 examples of Operating System?
 c. List 4 objectives of Operating System?
 d. List and explain 5 functions of the Operating System?

10a. What is Distributed Operating System?
  b. What is a networking Operating System?
  c. List 4 challenges involved in building a Distributed Operating System?

11a. What is Transparency (in Distributed Systems)?
  b. List the 8 types of transparencies in distributed systems
  c. List 5 issues of transparency in designing of a distributed system

12a. What is Remote Procedure Call (RPC)?
     i. RPC is also known as ?
  b. Draw a diagram of RPC? 
  c. List the entire sequence of events in a RPC?
  d. Draw the diagram showing the Events of RPC?
  e. List 3 advantages and disadvantages of RPC?

13a. What is Distributed Shared Memory (DSM)?
  b. Draw a diagram showing DSM?
  c. List 4 advantages and 2 disadvantages of DSM?

14a. What is Synchronization?

15a. What is Mobile Computing and give an example?
  b. List the 4 different characteristics group communication devices fall under?
  
  SPIN-OFF ()
  - He gave an assignment saying - What are some design issues related to mobile computings
    - Operating system
    - File system
    - Database Systems
    - Programming Languages
    - Communication architecture and protocols
    - Hardware and architecture
    - Real-Time, multimedia, QoS
    - Application requirements and design

  c. List 4 applications of mobile computing and explain them?
  d. List 5 limitations of Mobile Computing
  e. List and explain all 5 of the layers associated with mobile computing simplified reference model?
  f. Draw the diagram of the Simplified Reference Model?

16a. Discuss Wireless Transmission?
  b. Discuss frequencies for wireless transmission?
  c. SPIN-OFF: Read about ranges of frequencies and Wavelengths allocations and spectrum management in Nigeria.
  d. CALCULATIONS (Computation of frequency from wavelength)
     - A certain sound wave traveling in the air has a wavelength of 322 nm when the velocity of sound is 320 m/s. What is the frequency of this sound wave?
  e. CALCULATIONS (Computation of frequency in a vacuum)
     - the speed of electromagnetic wave in a vacuum is constant given as 3.00 * 10^8 m/s.  
       Therefore, if λ = 5.73 * 10^-7 m
  f. List and explain 4 factors that determine quality of communication?

17a. Discuss GSM Services? ✅
     i. What are the 3 sub-systems that make up GSM? ✅
  b. Draw a diagram containing the GSM Architecture? ✅
     i. GSM Architecture consist of 4 groups. Name them? 
  c. What is the function of Mobile Station?✅
     i. Mobile Stations consist of 2 entities. Name them? ✅
  d. Discuss Mobile Equipment(ME) and Subscriber Identity Module(SIM)? ✅

18a. Discuss Based Station Subsystems (BSS) and all 2 of it's components?  
  b. BSS is also known as?

19. Discuss the Network Switching Subsystem (NSS) including all 5 of its components?
    - Mobile Switching Centre (MSC)
    - Home Location Registration (HLR)
    - Visitor Location Registers (VLR)
    - Authentication Centre (AUC)
    - Equipment Identity Registry (EIR)

20a. Discuss Operational Support Subsystem (OSS)
  b. List the 3 main functions of OSS?
  c. Draw a diagram of the GSM Network Interface and explain what each interface does?

21a. Discuss Localization and Calling?
  b. What is a Mobile Terminated Call (MTC)?
  bi. Draw the diagram showing the steps that take place in a MTC

22a. Draw a diagram showing the steps that take place in Mobile 
     Originated Call (MOC)
  b. Why do cellular systems require Handover
  c. What are the 2 basic reasons for a handover
  d. Draw a diagram showing the 4 possible handover scenarios of GMS 
     and discuss each?
  e. Draw a handover decission depending on receive level

Wireless Network 
23a. Discuss the below?
     i. Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMS)?
     ii. FDMA?
     iii. Space Division Multiple Access (SDMA)
     iv. Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA)
     v. Carrier Sense Multiple Access (CSMA)

Information Security
24a. What is Computer Security?
  b. What is Computer Crime?
  c. Discuss the Information Security Terms
     i. Vulnerability
     ii. Backdoors
     iii. Denial-of-Service Attack
     iv. Direct-access attacks
     v. Eaves dropping 
     vi. Spoofing
     vii. Repudiation
     viii. Indirect attacks
  d. List 5 Cybercrime prevention tips
  e. List and Explain the 5 principles of Information Security









