FROM  
(TEST 1 - page 1 - 35 (18/01/24) - Question 1a to 8f)
(TEST 2 - page 36 - 96 (25/01/24) - Question 1a to 8f)

Lecturer said - "Whenever I ask you to draw and explain using diagrams, you should know that the diagram carries more marks" 

1a. What is Net-Centric Computing?
 ans: Net-Centric Computing is computing where network plays a the central 
      or larger role

 b. What is Computing?
 ans: Computing is the process of using computer technology to complete a 
      given–oriented task
 
 c. What is the CPU (also known as processor or Central Processing Unit)?
 ans: CPU is a piece of hardware that carries out the instructions of a 
      computer program.

      It is considered the brain of a computer system

    i. What are the operations performed by the CPU and Explain them?
    ans: - Arithmetic
         - Logical and
         - input/output


2a. What is a Multiprocessor System?
ans: Multiprocessor is a system which has more than two processors in the 
     system

 b. List the 2 types of multiprocessor systems 
    - Explain both
 ans: - Loosely coupled 
      - Tightly coupled 

      Explanation
      - Loosely coupled:
        - Loosely coupled systems are referred to as distributed computing 
          system.
        - The degree of coupling between the processors are LOW
      - Tightly coupled: 
        - Tightly coupled systems are referred to as parallel computing 
          systems 
        - The degree of coupling between the processors are HIGH

3a. Draw a diagram of a Loosely coupled system and a Tightly coupled system
ans: Loosely Coupled Systems Diagram
     - (SLIDE page 5)
     Tightly Coupled Systems Diagram
     - (SLIDE page 6)

 b. In a tabular format. List 4 key differences between the Loosely coupled 
    and the Tightly coupled system?
 ans: TABLE: Loosely Coupled Systems (L) vs Tightly Coupled Systems (T)
      L1. uses distributed memory
      T1. uses shared memory
 
      L2. Efficient when the tasks running on different processors have  
          minimal interactions between them.
      T2. Can take a higher degree of interaction between processors and is 
          efficient for high-speed and real-time processing
      
      L3. They don't encounter memory conflict 
      T3. They experience memory conflict
 
      L4. Data rate is low
      T4. Data rate is high
 
      L5. Less expensive and larger in size
      T5. More expensive and smaller in size

      L6. The interconnection network is MTS (Message Transfer System)
      T6. The interconnection networks are 
          - PMIN (Processor-Memory Interconnection Network) and 
          - ISIN (Interrupt-Signal Interconnection Network)



4a. What is Centralised Computing?
ans: is computing done at a central location, that is all or most of the 
     processing is performed on a central server

 b. Explain the architecture used in Centralised Computing
 ans: - Centralised computing uses client/server architecture where one or 
        more client nodes are directly connected to a central server.
      - In this computing, the client sends a request to a server and 
        receivers from server.
      - For example, A network for the Computer Science Department, where a 
        lecturer, admin, and student make requests to the departments central server and receives back a response.

 c. List the 3 characteristics of Centralised Computing
 ans: - Presence of Global Clock: All clients nodes sync up with the clock 
        of the central node (global clock)
      - One Single Central Unit: One single central unit which 
        serves/coordinates all the other nodes
      - Department Failure of Components. Central node failure causes 
        system to fail.

 d. Draw a diagram of Centralised Computing
 ans: (SLIDE page 9)

 e. List 4 advantages of Centralised Computing and 3 disadvantages
 ans: Advantages
      - Easy to physically secure.
      - Smooth and elegant person experience.
      - Dedicated resources.
      - More cost effective.
      - Quick updates are possible.
      - Easy detachment of a node from the network.

      Disadvantages
      - Highly dependent on server. If the server fails, all nodes fail.
      - No graceful degradation of the server.
      - Less possibility of data backup.
      - Difficult to maintain server.


5a. What is Decentralised Computing?
ans: Decentralised computing is an interconnected information system 
     in which no single entity is the sole authority

 b. List the 3 characteristics of Decentralised Computing?
 ans: - multiple Central Units: there is more than one central unit which 
        can listen for connections from other nodes,.
      - Department failure of components: one central node failure causes 
        only partial system failure and not complete system.
      - Lack of a global clock: each node is independent, hence different 
        clocks that they run and follow

 c. Draw a diagram of Decentralised Computing
 ans: (SLIDE page 15)

 d. List 3 advantages of Decentralized Computing and 4 disadvantages
 ans: Advantages
      - Minimal performance bottleneck problems 
      – It allows for a more balanced network
      - High availability
      - More autonomy and control over resources

      Disadvantages
      - May lead to coordination problems at enterprise levels.
      - Not suitable for small system.
      - Difficult to know which node failed.
      - Difficult to know which node responded.
      - No regulatory oversight.



5.5a. What are the 2 types of computing techniques?
ans: - Parallel computing
     - Distributed computing
 


6a. What is Parallel Computing?
ans: Parallel computing is a technique of computing where multiple tasks 
     are process simultaneously on multiple processors
 
 b. Explain the technique used in Parallel Computing?
 ans: Parallel computing uses divide and conquer technique to split each 
      task and then processes each sub-task on different CPU's
 
 c. List 4 reasons why one should pick parallel computing? 
 ans: - Many applications today require more computing power than a 
        traditional sequential computer can offer.
      - Parallel computing provides a cost–effective solution to solve 
        complex problem.
      - Parallel computing allow an increase in the number of CPUs in a 
        computer and also adding an efficient communication between the CPUs
      - It allows work load to be shared between processors and hence a 
        higher computing power
 
 d. Draw a diagram of Parallel Computing
 ans: (SLIDE Page 19)



7a. What is Distributed Computing (same as Distributing Computer)?
ans: Distributed computing is a computing technique where a single task 
     can be divided into multiple tasks and distributed to many computer

 b. Draw a diagram of a distributed database system?
 ans: (SLIDE Page 22)

 c. List the 2 characteristics of distributed computing
 ans: - Concurrency of components: node apply consensus protocols to 
        agree on same values/transactions/command/logs.
      - Lack of a global clock: all nodes maintain their own clock 
        Independently without having a significant effect on the  entire 
        system.

 d. In a tabular format. List 5 differences between Parallel Computing vs 
    Distributed Computing?
 ans: TABLE: Parallel (P) vs Distributed Computing (D)
      P1. Parallel Computing is a computing technique where multiple 
          processors process multiple tasks simultaneously
      D1. Distributed Computing is a computing technique where networked 
          computers communicate and coordinate the work through message 
          passing to achieve a common goal.

      P2. occurs on one computer
      D2. occurs between multiple computers.

      P3. multiple processors perform processing
      D3. computers rely on message passing

      P4. All processors share a single global clock (for synchronization)
      D4. There is no global clock (it uses synchronization algorithms)

      P5. The computer can have shared memory or distributed memory
      D5. The different computers have their individual memory

      P6. is used to increase performance (for scientific computation)
      D6. is used to share resources

      P7. it is used for scientific computation
      D7. it is used to increase scalability

 e. List 4 advantages of Distributed Computing and 3 disadvantages
 ans: Advantages
      - Lower latency than centralised or decentralised system
      - It has redundancy and resiliency
      - It has high spread and content distribution
      - It is scalable
      Disadvantages
      - It is difficult to design.
      - It can be difficult to spot bugs that causes errors
      - Security and privacy can become an issue with distributed systems.
      - It can be overkill for some tasks, using more physical resources 
        and engineering time than is necessary



8a. List all 5 Distributed Computing models?
ans: Minicomputer model
     Workstation model
     Workstation-server model
     Processor-Pool model
     Hybrid model

 b. Discuss the Minicomputer Model and draw it's diagram?
 ans: - The Minicomputer model is a simple extension of the centralized 
        time–sharing system.
      - A distributed computing system based on this model consists of few 
        minicomputers interconnected by a communication network where each 
        minicomputer usually has multiple users simultaneously logged onto it.
      - Several interactive terminals are connected to each 
        minicomputer. 
      - Each user logged onto a specific minicomputer, has 
        remote access to other minicomputers.
      - The network allows the user to access remote resources that are    
        available on other machines (other than the one on to which the 
        user is currently logged). 
      - The minicomputer model may be used when resource sharing with 
        remote users is desired.

      - The early ARPA net is an example of a distributed computing system 
        based on the minicomputer model

      Draw Diagram
      (SLIDE page 28)  
        
 c. Discuss the Workstation Model and draw it's diagram?
 ans: - A distributed computing system based on the workstation model 
        consists of several workstation interconnected by a communication
        network.
      - An organization may have several workstations located throughout an
        organisation with infrastructure were each workstation is equipped 
        with its own disk and serves as a single-user computer.
      - In such an environment, at any one time a significant proportion of 
        the workstation could be idle which result in the waste of large 
        amount of CPU time.
      - Therefore the idea of the workstation model is to interconnect all 
        these workstations by a high-speed LAN so that idle workstation 
        may be used to process jobs of users who are logged onto other 
        workstations and do not have sufficient processing power at their
        own work stations to get their jobs processed efficiently.

      Draw Diagram
      (SLIDE page 30)    

 d. Discuss the Workstation-Server Model and draw it's diagram?
 ans: - The workstation model is a network of personal workstations having 
        its own disk & local file system.
      - A workstation with its own local disk is usually called a diskful 
        workstation and workstation without a local disk is called a 
        diskless workstation. diskless workstation has become more popular 
        in network environments than diskful workstation, making the 
        workstation-server model more popular than the workstation model 
        for building distributed computing systems.
      - A distributed computing system based on the Workstation-server 
        model consist of a few minicomputers and several workstations 
        interconnected by a communication network.
      - In this model, a user logs onto a workstation called his or her 
        home workstation. Normal computation activities required by the 
        user’s processes are performed at the user’s home workstation but 
        request for services provided by special servers are sent to a 
        server providing that type of service that performs the user’s 
        requested activity and returns the result of request processing to 
        the user’s workstation.
      - Therefore, in this model, the user’s process need not migrated to 
        the sever machines for getting the work done
      - Example: The V-System.

      Draw Diagram
      (SLIDE page 32)  

 e. Discuss the Processor-pool Model and draw it's diagram?
 ans: - The processor-pool model is based on the observation that must of 
        the time a user does not need any computing Power but once in a 
        while the users may need a very large amount of computing power for 
        a short time.
      - Therefore, unlike the workstation-server model, in which a 
        processor is allocated to each user, in processor-pool model the 
        processor are pooled together to be shared by the users as needed.
      - The pool of a processor consist of a large number of microcomputers 
        attached to the network.  
      - Each processor in the pool has its own memory to load and run a 
        system program or an application program of the distributed 
        computing system.
      - In this model no home machine is present and the user does not log 
        onto any machine.
      - This model has better utilization of processing power and greater 
        flexibility.
      - Example: Amoeba and the Cambridge Distributed Computing System.

      Draw Diagram
      (SLIDE page 34)  

 f. Discuss the Hybrid Model?
 ans: - The workstation-server model has a large number of computer users
        only performing simple interactive task and executing small 
        programs.
      - In a working environment that has group of users who often perform
        jobs needing massive computation, the processor pool model is more
        attractive and suitable.
      - To combine advantages of workstation-server and processor-pool
        model, a hybrid model can be used to build a distributed system.
      - The processor in the pool can be allocated dynamically for
        computations that are too large or require several computers for
        execution.
      - The hybrid model gives guaranteed response to interactive jobs
        allowing them to be more processed in local workstations of the 
        users



9a. What is the Operating System?
ans: Operating System is a system software that manages computer hardware, 
     software resources, and provides common services for computer programs

 b. List 3 examples of Operating System?
 ans: Linux, MacOS, Windows

 c. List 4 objectives of Operating System?
 ans: - To enable fair sharing of computer resources by users and programs
      - To hide the detail of hardware resources from the user
      - To provide users with a convenient interface to use the computer
      - To manage the resources of a computer system
      - To keep track of whose using which resources, granting resource 
        requests and mediating conflict request from multiple users and 
        programs.

 d. List and explain 5 functions of the Operating System?
 ans: - Memory management
      - Processor management
      - Device management
      - File management
      - Security
      - Job Accounting
      - Interaction with the Operators
      - Error-Detecting Aids



10a. What is Distributed Operating System?
ans: A distributed operating system is an operating system that runs on 
     several machines whose purpose is to provide a useful set of services, 
     generally to make the collection of machines behave more like a single 
     machine

  b. What is a Networking Operating System?
  ans: A networking Operating System is an Operating system designed for 
       the sole purpose of supporting workstations, database sharing, 
       application sharing, file and printer access sharing amongst 
       multiple computers in the network

  c. List 4 challenges involved in building a Distributed Operating System?
  ans: - Designing a distributed operating system is more difficult than 
         designing a centralised operating system.
       - It is assumed that the operating system has access to complete and 
         accurate information about the environment in which it is 
         functioning. However, a distributed operating system must be 
         designed with the assumption that complete information about the 
         system environment will never be available.
       - In a distributed system, the resources are physically separated, 
         there is no common clock among the multiple processors, delivery 
         of messages is delayed, messages could even be lost.
       - A distributed operating system does not have up-to-date consistent 
         knowledge about the state of the various components of the 
         underlying distributed system.
       - Despite these complexities and difficulties, a distributed 
         operating system must be designed to provide all the advantages of 
         distributed systems to its user



11a. What is Transparency (in Distributed Systems)?
ans: Transparency is the concealment from the users and application 
     programmers about the separation of components such that it is 
     perceived as a single system rather than a collection of systems 
     working together

  b. List the 8 types of transparencies in distributed systems
  ans: Access, Location, Migration, Relocation, Replication, Concurrency, 
       Failure, Persistence

  c. List 5 issues of transparency in designing of a distributed system
  ans: - Access transparency
       - Location transparency
       - Migration transparency
       - Concurrency transparency
       - Failure transparency
       - Scaling transparency
       - performance transparency



12a. What is Remote Procedure Call (RPC)?
ans: A remote procedure call is an inter process communication technique 
     that is used for client-server based application

     i. RPC is also known as ?
     ans: subroutine call or function call

  b. Draw a diagram of RPC? 
  ans: (SLIDE page 45)

  c. List the entire sequence of events in a RPC?
  ans: - The client stub is called by the client 
       - The client stub makes a system call to  send the message to the 
         server and puts the parameters in the message.
       - The message is sent from the client to the server by the clients 
         operating system.
       - The message is passed to the server stub by the servers operating 
         system.
       - The parameters are removed from the message by the server stub.
       - The server procedure is called by the server stub.

  d. Draw the diagram showing the Events of RPC?
  ans: (SLIDE page 47)
  
  e. List 3 advantages and disadvantages of RPC?
  ans: Advantages
       - RPC supports process oriented and thread oriented models.
       - The internal message passing mechanism of RPC is hidden from the 
         user.
       - The effort to rewrite and redevelop the code is minimum in RPC.
       - Many of the protocol layers are omitted by RPC to improve 
         performance

       Disadvantages
       - It is not standardised, it can be interpreted in many ways.
       - There is no flexibility in RPC for hardware architecture. 
       - There is an increase in costs because of RPC.



13a. What is Distributed Shared Memory (DSM)?
ans: DSM is a form of memory architecture where physically separated 
     memories can be addressed as one logically shared address space.

  b. Draw a diagram showing DSM?
  ans: (SLIDE page 50)

  c. List 4 advantages and 2 disadvantages of DSM?
  ans: Advantages
       - Single address space; simplifies passing-by-reference
       - No memory access bottleneck as no single bus
       - Large virtual memory space
       - Hide data movement and provide a simpler abstraction for sharing
         data
       - Cheaper to build than multiprocessor systems

       Disadvantages
       - Programmers need to understand consistency models
       - By yielding control to DSM manager software, programmers cannot 
         use their own msg-passing solutions.



14a. What is Synchronization?
ans: synchronization is the coordination of hardware devices, such that the 
     data they contain or provide is made to be identical.



15a. What is Mobile Computing and give an example?
ans: it is a term used to describe technologies that enable people to access
     network services anyplace, anytime, and anywhere.

     The computing environment is mobile and moves along with the user, eg 
     Global system for mobile communication (GSM).

     e.g GSM (Global System for Mobile Communication)

  b. List the 4 different characteristics group communication devices fall 
     under?
  ans: - Fixed and wired
       - Mobile and wired
       - Fixed and wireless
       - Mobile and wireless

  c. List 4 applications of mobile computing and explain them?
  ans: - Transportation: Buses, trucks, trains, aircrafts, and ships 
         transmit information. Information such as:
         - logistic, maintenance , weather reports, news, etc.

       - Emergencies: An ambulance with a high quality wireless connection 
         to a hospital can transmit vital information about injured person 
         to the hospital from the scene of the accident. All the needed 
         treatment for the accident person can be prepared and specialist 
         can be consulted for a early diagnosis.

         Also, wireless networks are the only means of communication in the 
         case of natural disasters such as hurricanes or earthquakes.

       - Business: Field officers can communicate within their head 
         offices, send and receive information for decision making. Also 
         mobile computing helps offices to monitor their field officers etc.

       - Financial Services: At point of Sales(POS) terminals in shop and 
         supermarkets, when customer use credit cards for transactions, the 
         mobile network facilitate communication between the POS terminal 
         and the bank central computer system for verification and 
         effective transaction.

       - Data Capturing: Mostly mobile devices are used for data 
         collections in fields, such as weather, despatch delivery information, geo-mining etc.


  d. List 5 limitations of Mobile Computing
  ans: - Resource constraints: Battery
       - Interferences and loss rates for transmitted data
       - Bandwidth: need for more bandwidth as a result of high overhead 
         compare to shield wire.
       - Dynamic changes in communication environment.
       - Interoperability issues with regard to protocol standard.
       - Security constraint: not only portable devices can easily be 
         stolen, but radio interface is also prove to be damage of eaves 
         dropping. Wireless access must always include encryption, authentication, etc.


  e. List and explain all 5 of the layers associated with mobile computing 
     simplified reference model?
  ans: In a mobile computing system, the end-system need a protocol stack 
       as in the OSI reference model, comprising the application layer, 
       transport layer, transport layer, network layer data layer and 
       physical layer.
       The intermediate systems, such as the interworking unit do not 
       necessarily need all of the layers.

       - Physical layer: for wireless communication, the physical layer is 
         responsible for frequency selection, generation of the carrier 
         frequency, signal detection (although heavy interference may 
         disturb the signal) modulation of data into a carrier frequency 
         and encryption.

       - Datalink layer: The main task of this layer include accessing the 
         medium multiplexing of different data streams, correction of 
         transmission errors and synchronization. It is also responsible 
         for point-point connection between two devices or a 
         point-to-multipoint connection between one sender and several 
         receivers.

       - Network Layer: This layer is responsible for routing packets 
         through a network or establishing a connection between two 
         entities (devices) over many other intermediate system. In 
         wireless network, this layer is specifically responding for 
         addressing, routing, devices location, and handover between 
         different networks.

       - Transport Layer:. This layer is responsible for end-to-end 
         connection.

       - Application layer: This layer is responsible for service location, 
         support for multimedia applications, adaptive application that can 
         handle the large variation in transmission and wireless access to 
         the world-wide web.


  f. Draw the diagram of the Simplified Reference Model?
  ans: (SLIDE page 59)



16a. Discuss Wireless Transmission?
  b. Discuss frequencies for wireless transmission?
  c. SPIN-OFF: Read about ranges of frequencies and Wavelengths allocations and spectrum management in Nigeria.
  d. CALCULATIONS (Computation of frequency from wavelength)
     - A certain sound wave traveling in the air has a wavelength of 322 nm when the velocity of sound is 320 m/s. What is the frequency of this sound wave?
  e. CALCULATIONS (Computation of frequency in a vacuum)
     - the speed of electromagnetic wave in a vacuum is constant given as 3.00 * 10^8 m/s.  
       Therefore, if λ = 5.73 * 10^-7 m
  f. List and explain 4 factors that determine quality of communication?



17a. Discuss GSM? 
ans: - GSM which stands for Global System for mobile communication
     - GSM is a 2nd generation cellular standard developed in 1991 by European Telecommunications
     - It supports voice & data sharing
     - It was also the 1st generation to introduce SIM cards 

  i. What are the 3 sub-systems that make up GSM?
  ans: RSS (Radio or Base Station Subsystem)
       NSS (Network Switching Subsystem)
       OSS (Operation Support Subsystem)
       ..... actually there is one more in the below
       MS (Mobile Station)

  b. Draw a diagram containing the GSM Architecture?
  ans: Slide page 67

  i. GSM Architecture consists of 4 groups. Name them? 
  ans: Mobile Station
       Base Station Subsystem
       Operational Support Subsystem
       Public Network

  c. Discuss Mobile Station (MS)?
  ans: Mobile stations consist of 2 entities in SIM (Subscriber Identity 
       Module) and ME (Mobile Equipment)
       It is used to transmit voice, video and data over the air interface

  i. Mobile Stations consist of 2 entities. Name them?
  ans: ME and SIM

  d. Discuss Mobile Equipment(ME) and Subscriber Identity Module(SIM)?
  ans: ME is the portable handheld device e.g Iphone 15 pro, that is 
       uniquely identified by IMEI (International Mobile Equipment 
       Identity) number

       SIM is a smart card e.g MTN SIM, that is uniquely identified by IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity) number



18a. Discuss Based Station Subsystems (BSS) and all 2 of it's components?  
ans: Based Station Subsystem (also known as Radio Station Subsystem) is 
     made up of 2 components in BTS and BSC.
     BTS (Base Transceiver Station)
     - It sends and receives signals from MS (Mobile Station)
     - It does Encoding, Multiplexing, Encryption and Modulation
     BSC (Base Station Controller)
     - Controls groups of BTS
     - Allocation of radio channels
     - Handover from one BTS to another 

  b. BSS is also known as?
  ans: Radio Station Subsystem



19a. Discuss the Network Switching Subsystem (NSS) including all 5 of its components?
ans: Network Switching Subsystem, this consists of 5 components
     1. MSC (Mobile Switching Center)
        - It is the heart of GSM network
        - It manages mobile services and does things like registration and 
          authentication, etc
        - It performs call setup, call routing, and call switching
        - It communicates with HLR, VLR, AUC & EIR
     2. HLR (Home Location Register)
        - It is a permanent database for mobile subscribers storing their information
     3. VLR (Visitor Location Register)
        - It is a temporary database that updates whenever a MS (Mobile Station) enters 
          inside the coverage of the MSC
        - It controls mobile roaming in its area
        - It reduces number of queries to HLR
     4. AUC (Authentication Center)
        - It provides protection from air interface intruders
        - It maintains authentication keys and algorithms
     5. EIR (Equipment Identity Register)
        - It is a database used to track mobile phones using an IMEI number
        - It is made up of 3 sub-classes (white list, black list and grey list)



20a. Discuss Operational Support Subsystem (OSS)
ans: - It supports the operation and maintenance of GSM and allows system engineers to 
     monitor, diagnose and troubleshoot all aspects of GSM system
     - It supports one or more Operation Maintenance Centre (OMC) which are used to 
     monitor the performance of each MS, BTS, BSC and MSC within a GSM system

  b. List the 3 main functions of OSS?
  ans: - To maintain all telecommunication hardware and network operations with a 
         particular market.
       - To manage all charging and billing procedure.
       - To manage all mobile equipment in the system.
  
  c. Draw a diagram of the GSM Network Interface and explain what each interface does?
  ans: Slide page 76

...TO BE COMPLETED✏️



21a. Discuss Localization and Calling?
  b. What is a Mobile Terminated Call (MTC)?
  bi. Draw the diagram showing the steps that take place in a MTC



22a. Draw a diagram showing the steps that take place in Mobile 
     Originated Call (MOC)
  b. Why do cellular systems require Handover
  c. What are the 2 basic reasons for a handover
  d. Draw a diagram showing the 4 possible handover scenarios of GMS 
     and discuss each?
  e. Draw a handover decission depending on receive level



Wireless Network 
23a. Discuss the below?
     i. Frequency Division Multiple Access (FDMS)?
     ii. FDMA?
     iii. Space Division Multiple Access (SDMA)
     iv. Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA)
     v. Carrier Sense Multiple Access (CSMA)



Information Security
24a. What is Computer Security?
  b. What is Computer Crime?
  c. Discuss the Information Security Terms
     i. Vulnerability
     ii. Backdoors
     iii. Denial-of-Service Attack
     iv. Direct-access attacks
     v. Eaves dropping 
     vi. Spoofing
     vii. Repudiation
     viii. Indirect attacks
  d. List 5 Cybercrime prevention tips
  e. List and Explain the 5 principles of Information Security









