EXAM PREP

SOFTWARE ENGINEERING

CHAPTER 1

Lecture 1
1. Are the economies of ALL developed nations are dependent on software.
ans: yes, they are

a. What is software engineering?
ans: Software engineering is concerned with theories, methods and tools for professional software development.

b. ______________ is concerned with theories, methods and tools for professional software development.
ans: Software engineering

b. Expenditure on software represents a significant fraction of GNP in all developed countries. Is this true?
ans: Yes it is

c. The costs of software on a PC are often greater than the hardware cost. true or false?
ans: true

d. Software costs more to maintain than it does to develop. true or false?
ans: true

e. Software engineering is concerned with cost-effective software development. true or false?
ans: true

f. What are Generic products?
ans: Stand-alone systems that are marketed and sold to any customer (who wishes to buy them)

f1. what are some examples of Generic products?
ans: PC software such as graphics programs, 
     project management tools;
     CAD software; 
     software for specific markets (such as appointments systems for dentists).

f2. The specification of what the software should do is owned by the software developer and decisions on software change are made by the developer. true or false?
ans: true

g. What are Customized Products?
ans: Software that is commissioned by a specific customer to meet their own needs

g1. What are some example of Customized Products?
ans: embedded control systems, 
     air traffic control software, 
     traffic monitoring systems

g2. The specification of what the software should do is owned by the customer for the software and they make decisions on software changes that are required. true or false?
ans: true

Frequently asked questions about software engineering
2. What is software?
ans: Computer programs and associated documentation. Software products may be developed for a particular customer or may be developed for a general market.

b. What are the attributes of good software?
ans: Good software should deliver the required functionality and performance to the user and should be maintainable, dependable and usable

c. What is software engineering?
ans: Software engineering is an engineering discipline that is concerned with all aspects of software production

d. What are the fundamental software engineering activities?
ans: Software specification, software development, software validation and software evolution

e. What is the difference between software engineering and computer science?
ans: Computer science focuses on theory and fundamentals;
     software engineering is concerned with the practicalities of developing and delivering useful software.

f. What is the difference between software engineering and system engineering?
ans: System engineering is concerned with all aspects of computer-based systems development including hardware, software and process engineering. Software engineering is part of this more general process.

g. What are the key challenges facing software engineering?
ans: Coping with increasing diversity, demands for reduced delivery times and developing trustworthy software

h. What are the costs of software engineering?
ans: Roughly 60% of software costs are development costs, 40% are testing costs. For custom software, evolution costs often exceed development costs

i. What are the best software engineering techniques and methods?
ans: While all software projects have to be professionally managed and developed, different techniques are appropriate for different types of system. (For example, games should always be developed using a series of prototypes whereas safety critical control systems require a complete and analyzable specification to be  developed. You can’t, therefore, say that one method is better than another)

j. What differences has the web made to software engineering?
ans: The web has led to the availability of software services and the possibility of developing highly distributed service-based systems. Web-based systems development has led to important advances in programming languages and software reuse

k. List 4 or more essential attributes of good software?
ans: 

- Maintainability: Software should be written in such a way that it can evolve to meet the changing needs of customers.
- Dependability and security: Dependable software should not cause physical or economic damage in the event of system failure. Malicious users should not be able to access or damage the system 
- Efficiency: Software should not make wasteful use of system resources such as memory and processor cycles.
- Acceptability Software must be acceptable to the type of users for which it is designed. This means that it must be understandable, usable and compatible with other systems that they use.

l. Software engineering is an engineering discipline that is concerned with all aspects of software production (from the early stages of system specification through to maintaining the system after it has gone into use). true or false?
ans: true

m. What is Engineering Discipline?
ans: Using appropriate theories and methods to solve problems bearing in mind organizational and financial constraints.

n. What are some of the importance of Software Engineering?
ans: - More and more, individuals and society rely on advanced software systems. We need to be able to produce reliable and trustworthy systems economically and quickly
     - It is usually cheaper, in the long run, to use software engineering methods and techniques for software systems rather than just write the programs as if it was a personal programming project. For most types of system, the majority of costs are the costs of changing the software after it has gone into use

o. List some software process activities?
ans: - Software specification (where customers and engineers define the software that is to be produced and the constraints on its operation)
     - Software development (where the software is designed and programmed)
     - Software validation: (where the software is checked to ensure that it is what the customer requires)
     - Software evolution (where the software is modified to reflect changing customer and market requirements)

p. What are some general issues that affect most software?
ans: - Heterogeneity: Increasingly, systems are required to operate as distributed systems across networks that include different types of computer and mobile devices. 
     - Business and social change: Business and society are changing incredibly quickly as emerging economies develop and new technologies become available. They need to be able to change their existing software and to rapidly develop new software. 
     - Security and trust: As software is intertwined with all aspects of our lives, it is essential that we can trust that software.

q. There are many different types of software system and there is no universal set of software techniques that is applicable to all of these. true or false?
ans: true

r. The software engineering methods and tools used depend on the type of application being developed, the requirements of the customer and the background of the development team. true or false?
ans: true

s. List the 8 Application types we have?
ans: A. Stand-alone applications 
       - These are application systems that run on a local computer, such as a PC. They include all necessary functionality and do not need to be connected to a network. 
     B. Interactive transaction-based applications
       - Applications that execute on a remote computer and are accessed by users from their own PCs or terminals. These include web applications such as e-commerce applications. 
     C. Embedded control systems 
       - These are software control systems that control and manage hardware devices. Numerically, there are probably more embedded systems than any other type of system.
     D. Batch processing systems 
       - These are business systems that are designed to process data in large batches. They process large numbers of individual inputs to create corresponding outputs. 
     E. Entertainment systems 
       - These are systems that are primarily for personal use and which are intended to entertain the user. 
     F. Systems for modeling and simulation 
       - These are systems that are developed by scientists and engineers to model physical processes or situations, which include many, separate, interacting objects.
     G. Data collection systems 
       - These are systems that collect data from their environment using a set of sensors and send that data to other systems for processing. 
     H. Systems of systems 
       - These are systems that are composed of a number of other software systems.

t. Some fundamental principles apply to all types of software system, irrespective of the development techniques used. List 3?
ans: - Systems should be developed using a managed and understood development process. Of course, different processes are used for different types of software.
     - Dependability and performance are important for all types of system. 
     - Understanding and managing the software specification and requirements (what the software should do) are important. 
     - Where appropriate, you should reuse software that has already been developed rather than write new software

u. List 3 facts about web software engineering?
ans: - Software reuse is the dominant approach for constructing web-based systems
     - Web-based systems should be developed and delivered incrementally
     - User interfaces are constrained by the capabilities of web browsers

KeyPoints
v1. What is Software Engineering?
ans: Software engineering is an engineering discipline that is concerned with all aspects of software production

v2. List the 4 essential software product attributes?
ans: Maintainability,
     Dependability and Security,
     Efficiency,
     Acceptability

v3. List the activities of Software Processes?
ans: - specification
     - development
     - validation 
     - evolution 

v4. The fundamental notions of software engineering are universally applicable to all types of system development. true or false?
ans: true

V5. There are many different types of system and each requires appropriate software engineering tools and techniques for their development. true or false?
ans: true

v6. The fundamental ideas of software engineering are applicable to all types of software system. true or false?
ans: true




----------------------------------------------------------------

CHAPTER 1 

Lecture 2

2. Software engineers must behave in an honest and ethically responsible way if they are to be respected as professionals. true or false?
ans: true

a. Ethical behavior is more than ___________________________________________________.
ans: simply upholding the law but involves following a set of principles that are morally correct

b. List 5 issues of professional responsibility
ans: A. Confidentiality 
        - Engineers should normally respect the confidentiality of their employers or clients irrespective of whether or not a formal confidentiality agreement has been signed.
     B. Competence 
        - Engineers should not misrepresent their level of competence. They should not knowingly accept work which is outwith their competence.
     C. Intellectual property rights 
        - Engineers should be aware of local laws governing the use of intellectual property such as patents, copyright, etc. They should be careful to ensure that the intellectual property of employers and clients is protected.
     D. Computer misuse 
        - Software engineers should not use their technical skills to misuse other people’s computers. Computer misuse ranges from relatively trivial (game playing on an employer’s machine, say) to extremely serious (dissemination of viruses).

background
ACM/IEEE Code of Ethics

- The professional societies in the US have cooperated to produce a code of ethical practice.
- Members of these organizations sign up to the code of practice when they join.
- The Code contains eight Principles related to the behavior of and decisions made by professional software engineers, including practitioners, educators, managers, supervisors and policy makers, as well as trainees and students of the profession.

c. List all 8 Ethical Principles?
ans: 1. PUBLIC
     2. CLIENT AND EMPLOYER
     3. PRODUCT
     4. JUDGMENT
     5. MANAGEMENT
     6. PROFESSION
     7. COLLEAGUES
     8. SELF

     Explained
     1. PUBLIC - Software engineers shall act consistently with the public interest.
     2. CLIENT AND EMPLOYER - Software engineers shall act in a manner that is in the best interests of their client and employer consistent with the public interest.
     3. PRODUCT - Software engineers shall ensure that their products and related modifications meet the highest professional standards possible.
     4. JUDGMENT - Software engineers shall maintain integrity and independence in their professional judgment.
     5. MANAGEMENT - Software engineering managers and leaders shall subscribe to and promote an ethical approach to the management of software development and maintenance.
     6. PROFESSION - Software engineers shall advance the integrity and reputation of the profession consistent with the public interest.
     7. COLLEAGUES - Software engineers shall be fair to and supportive of their colleagues.
     8. SELF - Software engineers shall participate in lifelong learning regarding the practice of their profession and shall promote an ethical approach to the practice of the profession

d. List 3 Ethical Dilemmas?
ans: - Disagreement in principle with the policies of senior management.
     - Your employer acts in an unethical way and releases a safety-critical system without finishing the testing of the system.
     - Participation in the development of military weapons systems or nuclear systems.



e. Study slide Ch1.pdf from page 34 - 49 to complete this module






































