
SECTION 2 ..........................




LESSON 1.
Relationship between perception and conflict is guided into two frameworks. 
1 - perception characteristic framework &;
2 - causes of conflict framework.

1. Perception Characteristic Framework
i) Perception and the environment: The way in which a person percieves an environment is largely dependent on how the person responds to
that environment. If they percieve the environment and the actors to be appreciative of his or her personality they are less likely to 
be aggressive in that environment but if they do not feel appreciated, safe and happy, the resort to  defense mechanisms and they become
more likely to be aggressive.

ii) The perceptual process and meaning: This talks about the process of the inputs that the user get being debunked by the user as shortage
of input can ensue conflict.

iii) Transition from perception to action: This talks about the time lapse from perception and the percievers response. when perceptions
are built on stereotype the percievers actions are ususally quick and are not subject to deep consideration.

iv) Perception and cognition: The perception a perciever recieves and the knowledge he acquires from it by processing it definitely has
a bearing on the manifestation of conflict.

v) Perception and Needs Satisfaction: Where the perciever process the information percieved as to be that which poses a threat on 
him/her accomplishments / satisfaction it could definitly have a bearing on the manifestation of conflict.


2. Causes of Conflict Framework
i) Perception of Common Resources: The relationship between perception, common resources and conflict has a direct bearing on the 
manifestation of conflict. when a group percieves that their access to a common resource that is limited and exhaustible is in 
question of being taken away from them by a competing group, the percieving group could get really aggressive

ii) Perception and values: Wrong perception of values of other groups has also been a driving force of conflict. Conflicts at this
level are  usually the hardest to settle. Because when it comes to a communities values it goes way back so in most cases it is usually
non-negotiable

iii) Perception and Psychological Needs: To wrongly percieve the social psychological requirements of a group could lead
to conflict.


Barriers to Perception - Nelson and Quick did this study
i) Selective Perception: This barrier is derived by filtering a whole lot of information that supports their viewpoint.
ii) Stereotyping: This is a generalization about a group of people. Could end up being a genuine perceptual framework when it turns out
to be accurate, but in the case where they don't which is mostly the case, it brings harm to the percieved.
iii) First Impression Error: forming long lasting impression about the percieved "based on the initial perception".
iv) Implicit Personality Error: This explains the usual inaccurate "mini-theories" we habour in mind for determining the apperances and 
behaviours of the percieved.
v) Self-fulfilling Prophecies: also known as pygmalion effect. This barrier addresses how our expectations influence our interactions with
people and the accomplishment of that which we desire.


Managers and Perception
Managers are required to make judgement about people at work on a daily basis making management process a very complex one. As a manager
you need to deal with all kinds of perceptions from the people at work. - Rao and Narayana said "A manager can improve his perceptual
accuracy if he/she becomes aware of how perceptions are formed and distorted". But majority of the managers arrive at employee-related
decisions through observations and trials and error approaches.




LESSON 2.
LANGUAGE BARRIERS IN CONFLICT AND RESOLUTION
It takes alot of effort to make sure that what one says is conveyed in the intended meaning. But no matter how much effort is put in
there is always a chance that the message will be misinterpreted. Therefore the reciever also has to put in some effort to recieve the 
intended message.

Language-Based Barrier to Communication
There are over 450 languages spoken in Nigeria everyday. Ineffective use of language is one of the reasons for misunderstanding.

Meaning Can Be Misunderstood
What is said and what is understood by the listener often differs. Such misunderstanding is called bypassing. Words acquire 
different meaning overtime and are used in different cultures and regions. So as a listener you must be alert to the fact that words
can be interpreted differently by different people

How To Reduce Bypassing
a. Be Approachable: Encourage free and open converstations
b. Be Person-Minded, not Word-Minded: Consider the person you are speaking to and use words that convey your 
intended meaning as best as possible to the reciever
c. Query and Paraphrase: Ask questions and paraphrase your message whenever there is a possibility for misunderstanding
d. Be Sensitive to Contexts: Consider the verbal and situational contexts in which communication occurs

LANGUAGE CAN SHAPE OUR ATTITUDES
An effective communicator must speak in a way that is harmonius, gender inclusive and not sexist or demeaning to any group of people,
making sure that your intention is not to step on the toes of the listeners. Language influences how we see others around us. Inappropriate
use of language could drive perceptual and social problems and shouldn't be tolerated in any society.

How To Use Language Effectively
The ability to use language efficiently and effectively as peace students would require not just good education but years 
of consistent practice. The competent communicator must therefore ensure that he finds ways to understand and be understood




LESSON 3.
EARLY WARNING AND EARLY RESPONSE MECHANISM
The concept early warning has multiple definitions which has created confusion, meaning different things to different people. This is so 
because the concept is applicable in various fields e.g engineering, medicine, peace and conflict studies, and so many more. It basically
tries to get various fields of expertise prepared for emergency, conflict or crisis, disasters and so on.

Early Warning (EW) - Anticipates and designs measures that will facilitate the early identification of threats to lives, propertise and the 
environment so that the preventive actions or steps could be taken on time. It is also important to look at early warning and 
early response as two sides of a coin. Early Response is the goal but then early warning is the tool we use to achieve that goal.

The Meaning of Early Warning (EW)
Gounden V, - Early warning is a warning at an early stage of an event or a set of circumstances that will have negative consequences.

Early warning(EW) can also be defined as the collection, analysis and communication of relevant evidence and conclusions to policy-makers
to enable them make choices
The purpose of:
a) Anticipating the escalation of violent conflict
b) The development of strategic responses to these crises; and 
c) The presentation of options to critical actors for the puposes of descision making and preventive actions

Early warning(EW) can also be said to be a complex system of indicators to predict the posibility that a crisis is likely to happen so that
preventive action can be taken on time.
In sum, it's job is to
1) To collect and share information on the possibility of a conflict happening
2) To sound an alarm
Early warning is a proactive process is the generating of information that aids in the prevention of likely disasters or unfavourable 
events or reduce the outcomes.

some benefits of Early Warning
- it is a crisis and disaster protection (prevention) mechanism
- it promotes public-private partnership
- it introduces and supports services at the local level that directly enhance development
- it advances community participation for it's own good
- it creates the potential for increased utilization of indegenous knowledge and values
- effective early warning promotes improved environmental management and sustainable livelyhood that are harmonious with the environment
- it reveals the causes of conflict


The Meaning of Early Response (ER)
Early response refers to any initiative that occurs in the latent stages of a perceived potential armed conflict, man-made or 
natural disaster with the aim of reduction, resolution or transformation.
- simply it refers to the process of consultation, policy making, planning, and action to reduce or avoid armed conflict, or to guide 
  against, reduce or mitigate the effects of natural or man-made disasters on people or the environment

United Nations General Assembly - defines early response as "the process of using information gathered from early warning systems to
design action aimed at preventing violent conflict".- this actions could be development of policy or programmes

Types Of Early Warning
a) Conflict early warning: This is the type of early warning information or system aimed at preventing an impending conflict
b) Disaster early warning: This is aimed towards preventing or minimising an impending natural disaster that is inevitable or cannot be
prevented e.g Earthquake, hurricane, tsunami, climate change, and so on.
c) Hazards assessment: it has to do with collection, analysis, and communication of evidence discovered at the scene of an accident or 
calamity with the aim of advising the concerned authority on the rapid steps to be taken to stop the suffering or the impact on the victims

Early Warning Indicators
Indicators are those things which are pointers to a given condition.
Among the things analyst would cite to be indicators of conflict in Africa are armed forces and their deploymen; the extent of tension 
within groups, the absence of a framework for resolving the conflict.

Types of Indicators
1) Economic Indicators
2) Environmental Indicators
3) Social Indicators
4) Political Indicators
5) Security Indicators
6) Individual Security/Safety
7) Rural Indicators
8) Education Indicators
9) Demographic Indicators

1) Economic Indicators: It reveals the need to provide information on potential shortages, production problems e.t.c..
2) Environmental Indicators: This is a sensitive issue because of the health hazards and pillage of arable land with problems such as 
erosion, environmental pollution(oil spilation), and the excavation of solid mineral, and so on. Famers, animal rearers and fishermen 
have been greatly affected
3) Social Indicators: This provides data on the alarming state of unemployment and underemployment. A hungry man and an Idle man is the
devils workshop -maxim.
4) Political Indicator: A regular assessment of the domestic political arena has revealed alot of infringement on fundamental human rights
e.g unlawful arrest, killing political rivals, election rigging e.t.c.
5) Security Indicators: Gathering information on development within the armed forces
6) Individual Security/Safety: an assessment on crime, urban and rural violences, the causes of insurrection and militarisation of the 
rural areas, incessant killing, maiming of innocent citizens by armed robbers, ritual killing, policemen killing innocent citizens e.t.c
7) Rural indicators: Effective information gathering at border towns, villages, and in one country using media channels to keep an eye on
the rural areas making sure that tranquility and peace is maintained
8)Educational Indicators: Education is the backbone of science and technological advancement of any nation. And the continuous decline in
the quality of education is posing a great threat to the growth and development of our nation (Nigeria).
9) Demographic Indicators: This involves sudden demographic changes and displacement of people and increasing territoriality of 
groups/peoples.

The purpose of early warning is not only to have access to information about the deteriorating situation but to do something about it

Language Can Cause Polarisation
Polarisation is the tendency to view things in terms of extremes - rich or poor, beautiful or ugly, large or small, high or low, good or bad,
intelligent or stupid. Polarisation can be destructive, escalating conflict to the point at which two parties simply cannot communicate.

Pendulum effect refers to escalation in peace studies - the pendulum represents a person's perception of reality, which includes thier
feelings, attitude, opinions and value judgement about the world. When the pendulum is hanging at the centre a persions perception is 
considered to be realistic, intelligent, sane e.t.c. Most of us believe our pendulum to be at the centre always. 
When 2 individuals disagree their pendulums begin to move in the opposite directions. - emotions due to this can eventually run so high
that a mutually agreeable settlement between the parties would seem unattainable. The danger of polarisation can be avoided if the speaker
is able to recognise the potential for misunderstanding and by making carefully taught out statements.

Language Can Be Sexist
There is a difference between how men and women may use language to converse with one another. some communication and lanuage theorists
believe that men tend to use language to assert status whereas women use language to establich and maintain social relationships.





LESSON 4
ARMS CONTROL AND DEMILITARISATION
The end of the Cold War and the collapse of the former Soviet Uninon brought about easy access to highly lethal weaponry ranging from
assault rifles to rocket launchers, facilitated by the opening of borders and the rapid expansion of free trade. These weapons are
increasingly falling into the wrong hands.
Research finding reveals that there has been more death due to small arms and light weapons than that of atomic bombs that devastated Hiroshima and Nagasaki
during world war. Small arms can now be referred to as "Weapons of mass destruction".
One of the major efforts in the 21st century has been to control or limit the number of weapons and ways in which they are use in order to
preserve internation peace and security.

Definition Of Small Arms and Light Weapons
Small Arms: These are weapons or instruments that can easily be operated by any individual to cause harm
Light Arms: Are weapons (with anticipated lethal effect) that are operated with a combined support of a crew of two or three

Types of Small Arms/ Light Weapons
a. Small Arms
- Revolvers and self-loading pistols
- Rifles and carbines
- Sub-machine gun
- Assault-rifles
- Light machine gun guns

b. Light Weapons
- Heavy machine-guns
- Hand-held under-barrel and mounted grenade launchers
- Portable launchers of anti-tank missile and rocket systems
- Portable anti-tank guns and recoilles rifles
- Portable launchers of anti-aircraft missile system
- Mortars of calibers of less than 100mm

c. Ammunition and Explosives
- Catridges (rounds) for small arms
- Shells and missiles for light weapons
- Anti-personnel and anti-tank grenades
- Landmines
- Mobile containers with missile of shells for single action and anti-tank systems
- Esxplosives

Characteristic of Small Arms and Light Weapons
i) Simplicity and durability: small arms/light weapons are extremely durable and require litle upkeep or logistical support as supposed to
major weapons systems which requires regular upkeep

ii) Portability and Concealability: They can easily be transported or smuggled into areas of conflict or concealed in shipments of 
legitimate cargo.

iii) Military/Police and civilian uses: Small arms and light weapons are often used by military, police force and may also be held
legally by individuals.

iv) Low Cost and Wide Availability: They are usually supplied in large quantity for military, police and civilian use.

v) Lethatlity: The increase in sophistication of small arms / light weapons promotes the availability of firepower that matches or exceeds
that of national police or even the military of a state or country.


Arms Race
An arms race is a situation where two countries are continually trying to get more and better arms than each other. - it is a competition
between two(2) nations. Examples: Nuclear, chemical, biological weapons and several other forms of weapons.

Arms Proliferation
This refers to the easy availability or influx of illicit small arms and light weapons into wrong hands or unauthorised groups of people
for use against the individuals or groups meant to be protected.

Causes of Arms Proliferation
- Undemocratic governance
- Undemocratic electoral process
- Weak economic base of most countries engulfed with crisis
- Uneven distribution of basic infrastructure
- Military coups
- Ethnicity
- Weak stockpile and management of national arms and ammunitions
- Post-colonial or Cold War reminants
- Movement of refugees/dominant of refugees camps by armed groups
- Failed state

Effects of Arms Proliferation
- Sustains and Exacerbates arm conflicts
- It endangers peacekeepers and humanitarian workers
- It undermines respect for international humanitarian law
- It threatens legitimate but weak government
- It benefits terrorists as well as the perpetrtors of organised crime
- It endangers the lives of defenceless individuals or citizens
- It threatens unity and peaceful co-exisence of plural states

Arms Control
Arms control is an umbrella term for restricions upon the development, production, stockpiling, proliferation, and usage of weapons of mass
destruction. 
On a national or community level, arms control can amount to programs to control the access of private citizens to weapons - This is often
referred to as gun politics.

Aims of Arms Control
i) Arms control is meant to break the security dilemma
ii) It aims at mutual security between partners and overall stability
iii) Other than stability, arms control comes with cos reduction and damage limitation

History of Arms Control
Arms control developed both in theory and in practice during the cold war between 1940s and 1991. when the two military superpowers, the
United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), dealt with one another.

Demilitarisation
It is an applied strategy for executing successful peacekeeping, peacemakin and peace building operations, in a conflict zone or in a state
or country that is emerging from crisis or war

Types of Demilitarisation Methods
i) Disarmament: it is the collection, documentation, control, and disposal of small arms, ammunition, explosives, light and heavy weapons.
ii) Demobilisation: The disbanding of armed groups. The formal and controlled discharge of active combatants from armed forces.
iii) Reinsertion: Is the assistance offered to ex-combatants during demobilisation but prior to the longer-terms process of reintegration.
iv) Reintegration: It is described as the process of reintegrating former combatants back into civil society. - it can also be defined
as the process by which ex-combatants acquire civilian status and gain sustainable employment and income.

An example of the above concepts is the Amnesty and Post-Amnesty operational activities extended to the Niger-Delta militant groups by the
Nigerian government

Objectives of DDR
the objectives of the Disarmament, Demobilisation, and Reintegration (DDR) programme are:
- reducing the size of armed forces
- to help ex-combatant to socially reintegrate back into their communities
- to facilitate the release and reintegration of children associated with armed forces back into their families and communities
- to reintegrate women associated with armed forces back into thier community through community based programme in their various 
communities.
- to strengthen the capacities of RSSDDRC, line ministries. In south Sudan, South Sudanese to support the people in those places

Prerequisites for DDR
Disarmament, Demobilisation, and Reintegration (DDR) is somewhat different from the blanket term "peace keeping", in that DDR requires
certain conditions to be effectively implemented.
Some of them are:
i)Security: conflicts at the targeted area must be completely or nearly halted, & forces must be in place to assure no renewal of conflict.
Without this guarantee of security, DDR cannot be effectively implemented

ii) Inclusion of all ex-belligerents(fighters): without the cooperation between all armed groups, DDR cannot succed. Unless all combatants
and factions are disarmed, the potential for a resurgence of conflict is too great.

iii) Sufficient funding: Without enough funding to be completed, DDR operations cannot succeed. as incomplete reintegration of ex-combatants
leaves the possibility of a renewal of conflict.


Requirements for Successful DDR Implementation
1) Reduction of military expenditure
2) Reorientation of military research and development
3) Conversion of the arms industry
4) Demobilisation and reintegration
5) Redevelopment of troops
6) Safe disposal and management of "surplus weapons"

Enforcement of arms control agrrements has proven difficult over time. Most agreements rely on the continued desire of the participants to
abide by the terms to remain effective





LESSON 5

PEACE AND EDUCATION
There are several ways to look at peace, it has multiple definitions each fitting a particular world view of the scholars who defined it.
Each definition on peace complements each other.

Peace
The word "peace" is derived from the Latin word pax which literally means a pact, a contract, an agreement to end war or any dispute and 
conflict between two people, nations or antagonistic groups of people.
Peace is a situation or period of time where there is no war or violence in a country or an area - often described as peaceful.
Saint Augustine argued that peace and health go hand-in-hand
 
Education and Peace
With mankind's experience in war and violence, a global movement has emerged which recommends the discussions of issues of peace in 
education at all levels and in all it's forms. According to this movement, education could be used to teach understanding and respect
for all people with different backgrounds and values.

This movement believes education 
- is capable of improving the abilities of people to communicate with others;
- could lead to an awareness of the duties upon individuals, social groups and nations towards each other.
- remove the ignorance often associated with violence
- help most cultures see that warfare is not a biological phenomena inherited from there ancestor but a cultural one that can instead 
advocate pursuing a culture of peace. - in summary war is a social invention and not a fatality determined by genes

The use of education for the pursuit of peace involves:
- Training and practice of conflict resolution
- Linkage of school activities to ongoing activities in communities
- Incorporation of discussions on social movements, peace and non-violence e.t.c..
- Extension of the sense of community to all people
- Systematic review of school curricula to ensure an approach to ethnic, racial and cultural differences that emphasises on equality.
- Renovation of the teaching of history, to lay more emphasis on non-violent social change
- Teaching of science as a tool which can be used for war or for peace.


Peace Education
Peace education is a process of imparting specific skills, attitude and knowledge on people, thereby helping them to solve problems by
building consensus, creating cultural awareness and showing empathy which builds positive attitude about justice and respect for democracy.

The aim of peace education is to help you understand the nature and origins of violence and it's effects on both victim and perpetrator;
to create frameworks for achieving peaceful creative societies.

According to the peace education Working Group of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF, 2004)
peace education is "the process of promoting knowledge, skills and values that will bring about behavioural changes that will enable 
children, youths and adults to prevent conflict and overt any structural violence; whether at intrapersonal, interpersonal, intra-group, inter-group,
national or international level".

peace education covers topics as such as anti-racism, conflict resolution, multiculturalism, cross-cultural training and the cultivation
of a generally peaceful outlook - (Salmon, 2002:7)


The Role Of Peace Educators
Peace education is often described as a series of "teaching encounter" that draw from people's desire for peace and non-violent alternatives
for managing conflict.
Page (2008) suggested that peace education be thought of as involving a number of tasks such as:
-Encouraging a commitment to peace as a settled disposition
-Informing students on the consequences of war and social injustice
-Informing students on the value of peace in a society
-Encouraging the students to leave the world and imaging a peaceful future
-Caring for students and encouraging them to care for others

Negative peace education tries to put out fires while; 
Positive peace education tries to stop fires (conflicts) from breaking out in the first place.

Peace education started out by discussing the causes of war and the attempts of international systems to avoid war.
In Japan peace education was defined narrowly as 'anti-atomic bomb' education

Peace educators produce critical thinkers who question the emphasis upon the various forms of militarism found all around the world.
Peace educators seek to establish democratic classrooms that teach cooperation and promote positive self-esteem among their students.

Methods of Achieving Post-Conflict Sustainable Peacebuilding

Understanding Peace Building
There are two distinct ways to understand peace building
Acording to United Nations (UN) document "An Agenda for peace"

Peace building is a long-term process that occurs after violent has slowed down or come to a halt. it is the phases of peace process that
takes place after peacemaking and peacekeeping.

In it's narrower sense, peace building is a process that facilitates the establishment of durable peace and tries to prevent the recurrence
of violence by addressing root causes and effects of conflict through reconciliation, institution building, and political as well as 
economic transformation

it is generally agreed that the central task of peace building is to create positive peace.

Peacemaking - is the diplomatic effort to end the violence between the conflicting parties, move them towards nonviolent dialogue, and 
eventually reach a peace agreement
Peacekeeping - on the other hand, is a third-party intervention (often, but not always done by military forces) to assist parties in 
transitioning from violent conflict to peace by separating the fighting parties and keeping them apart.
Many contrast peace building with peacemaking and peacekeeping.
The long-term peace building perspective is crucial to future violence prevention and the promotion of a more peaceful future,


The Structural Dimension of Peace Building
The structural dimenion of peace building focuses on the social conditions that foster violent conflict. In order to establish durable 
peace, parties must analyse the structural causes of the conflict and initiate social structural change.
what is Democratisation - Democratisation seeks to establish legitimate and stable political insitution and civil liberties that allow for
meaningful competition for political power and broad participation in the selection of leaders and policies.

Economic peace building targets both the micro and macro-level
microeconomic level - increase economic activity, investment, promote inter-communal trade, distribution of land, and expand school 
enrollmen and job training.
macroeconomic level - focuses on securing the economic foundations and infrastructure.


The Relation Dimension of Peace Building
A second integral part of building peace is reducing the effects of war-related hostility through the repair and transformation of damaged
relationships. The relational dimension of peace building focuses on reconciliation, forgiveness, trust building and future imagining.
Many believe that reconciliation is one of the most effective and durable ways to transform relationships and prevent destructive conflicts
Two Techniques that help change perception are
- International exchange programs and;
- problem-solving workshops


The Personal Dimension of Peace Building
The personal dimension of peace building centers on desired changes at the individual level. If individuals are not able to undergo a 
process of healing, there will be broader social political and economic repercussions.
In Traumatic situations, a person is rendered powerless, and faces the threat of death and injury. Traumatic events might include 
- a serious threat or harm to one's family
- sudden destruction of one's home
- a threat to one's physical being
Building peace requires attention to these psychological and emotional layers of conflict. 
If it is taken that psychology drives individuals' attitudes and behaviours, then new emphasis must be placed on understanding the 
social psychology of conflict and its consequences. If ignored, certain victims of past violence are at risk of becoming perpetrators of
future violence. Victim empowerment and support can help to break this cycle







SECTION 2 - COMPLETED. GOODLUCK ✅














































