SECTION 1 ..........................





LESSON 1


BASIC UNDERSTANDING OF CONFLICT
The word "conflict" is as old as mankind. The word has been in existence in all spheres of human life since the worlds inception.

Historical Background and Conceptual Definition of Conflict
The word "conflict" is derived from the Latin word "confligere" - which means to strike, fight, struggle, batle, clash - Webster Dictionary
Conflict also means contradiction arising from differences in interests, ideas, ideologies, orientations, beliefs, perceptions and 
tendencies.
Conflict is not necessarily negative in itself. It is often a by-product of social change and may lead to constructive transformation.

Quicy Wright (1990:19) - defines conflict as opposition among social entities directed against one another, it distinguished competition 
and defined it as opposition among social entities independently striving for something of which the resources are inadequate to satisfy all.
Conflict arises when disagreement emerges from competition that cannot be resolved. conflict represents aggravated competition
A non-voilent conflict has the potential to become violent if the regulatory mechanism is ineffective.

Quincy Wright opines that war is a type of conflict, thus, by understanding conflict we may learn about the probable characteristics of war
under different conditions and methods most suitable for regulating, preventing and winning wars.

Wright gives two senses in which war could be understood
i) legal sense: war is considered a situation between two or more political groups whom are equally entitled to settle conflict by armed force.
ii) sociological sense: war refers to conflicts between political groups carried on by armed forces of considerable magnitude

Kriesberg (1973:17) simply defines conflict as "a relationship between two or more parties who believe they have incompatible goals."

Stagner defines conflict as "a situation in which two or more human beings desire goals which they perceived as being obtainable by 
one or the other, but not both"

Ross (1993 6:xiv) notes that: "if disadvantaged groups and individuals refuse to consider open conflict, they deny themselves what 
sometimes is their most effective means for bringing about needed change".

Similarly, Laue (1990:256-7) notes that: "Conflict is not deviant, pathological, or sick behaviour per-se. it is  not the opposite of 
order. There is orderliness in conflict, although conflict can become disorderly. it can be a very helpful and useful part of society.
What to be feared is destructive conflicts (that is, conflict that produces negative results) rather than conflict itself.

Action Aid and Hoivik and Meijer (1994) see conflict as "incompatible behaviour between parties whose interests appear to be 
incompatible or clashing."


Causes Of Conflict
- conflicts over resources
- conflicts over psychological needs
- conflicts involving values
- conflicts over inadequate information

i) Conflicts over resources
Marxian Theory of conflict says "The more the rate of unequal distribution of scarce resources in the society, the greater is the basic
conflict of interest between its dominant and subordinate segments."
Resources that cause conflict include:
-landed properties, money, vehicles, and company ownership/shares among others.

ii) Conflict over Psychological Needs
Conflicts that cannot be seen but affect the psche of the individual and group
Maslow's theory says - when an individual psychological need is achieved or satisfied, such an individual becomes dominated by a drive for 
the other unsatisfied needs through a process he calls "Fulfillment Progression".
Example includes
-structural factor, politics, personality clash, ehnicity

iii) Conflict Involving Values
Contradicting value systems such as religious beliefs, ideological positions, and general worldview aids social conflict among interacting
parties. Conflict involving values are the most difficult to understand and resolve because most times people can die for what they believe
in.
Weaver, who likens culture to an iceberg, he says - "internal culture",  is implicitly learnt and difficult to change.
Beliefs are interrelated and form "belief system", which because they are learnt in life, are difficult to change.
Example of values laden conflict includes:
- The cold war, terrorism, religious conflicts such as 1980 Maitatsine crisis, the 1991 bonnke crisis in kano, 
the 2002 beauty pageant crisis.
- The most recent of all the crisis is the Boko Haram crisis that has killed over 10,000 people

iv) Conflict over Information
Manipulation of Information is a major cause of conflict in a society. when the information system in a society is tampered with, there is
bound to be conflict situation. E.g feeding people with lies or giving the right information but in at the wrong time.
Some communication barriers that are capable of distorting meanings are:
-physical distance, language, and the listeners' value judgement


TYPES OF CONFLICT
a. Intra-Personal Conflict: within an individual type conflict
b. Inter-Personal Conflict: between 2 or more individuals
c. Intra-Group Conflict: between individuals within a group
d. Inter-Group Conflict: within groups
e. National Conflict: within a Nation
f. International Conflict: between Nations


Classification of Conflict
Ted Robert Gurr - "A Comparative of Civil Strife" and
Quincy Wright   - "The Nature of Conflict"
argues that the level of violence is a better criterion for classifying conflicts.

Wright - distinguishes between "ordinary" conflict (between individuals and groups) and then war which is carried out by armed forces
Gur - distinguishes between "turmoil" which includes both non-voilent and small-scall violent conflict and rebellion or internal war.
Gur believes conflicts differ largely in degree rather than kind and should therefore be analysed in terms non-voilent and violent ones

Another popular classification categorieses conflict into structural and non-structural conflicts.

Wherp in his work "Conflict Resoulution" thinks that most conflicts in Africa are endemic by definition to the extent that the predisposing
factors are not embedded in the political system.

The third classification of conflicts is based on the character of the parties in conflicts.





LESSON 2

CONFLICT THEORIES
It is important for you to learn about the theories and empirical studies conducted by sc holars or researchers in the area of social
conflicts to have comprehensive understanding of the various school of thoughts and their diverse views and opinions in this unit.

A. Conflict Theories from Sociological Perspective Karl Marx Theory
Marx the great social philosopher opines that the degree of inequality in the distribution of resources generates inherent conflicts of 
interest. Though Karl Marx had some wrong predictions, his analysis is still very much useful, applicable and relevant to most conflicts
being experienced in our world today.

Marx also emphasis that the more the subordinate segments at a system become aware of ther collective interests and question the legitimacy
of the distribution of scarce resources, the more likely they are to join in overt conflict against dominant segments of a system.
The more violent a conflict is, the greater the amount of structural change within a society and the greater the redistribution of scarce
resources.

B. Max Weber Theory
Webar sees conflict as highly contingent on the emergence of "charismatic leaders" who could mobilise subordinates. Conflict between 
super ordinates and subordinates becomes more likely when charismatic leaders can mobilise the resentment  of subordinates.

C. Conflict-Theory Model of Dahrendorf (1958)
Dahrendorf introduces to the theory of conflict the view of productive and constructive conflict. He sees conflict as necessary for 
achieving an end in the society or for realisation of social goals. Dahrendorf's contends for two different kinds of struggles in an
organisation. He calls them
- "exogenous" and
- "endogenous" conflicts

a. endogenous: this is a conflict that is generated with an organisation, system or a society.
b. exogenous: this is a conflict brought upon or into a system from the outside.

The theory asserts that certain conflicts are based on certain social structural arrangements and hence are bound to arise whenever such 
structural arrangements are given.


D. Pluralist Perspective of Conflict
The advocates of the pluralist school of thought such as Hugh Clegg et al, holds a different view about conflict. The school views conflict
as having a constructive contribution towards what is defined as healthy industrial order.
The pluralist school emerged as a criticism to the political doctrine of sovereignty, the notion that in an independent political system,
there must be a final authority whose decision is supreme. Contrary to this assumption, the pluralists believed that within any political 
system, there are groups with their own interests and beliefs and the government itself depends on their consent, loyalty and cooperation 
to survive.
In essence, a plural social or industrial relation has to accommodate different and divergent pressure groups in order to ensure that the
different group interests are harmonised such that social and political changes take place peacefully.


E. Structural - Functional Theory (Talcott Parson 1960)
Talcott Parson Champions the course of this theory after the World War II. The Structural functionalist projected that individuals will 
adjust to a given structure in an organisation, institution or society. 
Any change in the structure of the organisation or institution causes conflict and it destabilises the organisation.


F. The Theory of Structural Balance (Helder 1958)
Helder in this theory states that: Ego tends to like whom his friend likes, but dislike whom his enemy dislikes. Also, Ego tends to dislike
whom he dislike, and likes whom his enemy dislikes.

G. Assumption on Ethnicity and Conflict (Person, Novak, and Gleason 1982:1)
According to Person, Novak, and Gleason (1982:1), the word "ethnic" was derived via latin from the Greek ethnos, which means "nation or race".

Thomson (2000:58) defines an ethnic group as "a community of people who have the conviction that they have a common identity and common
fate based on issues of origin, kinship, ties, traditions, cultural uniqueness, a shred history and possibly a shared language".

Toland agrees with Thomson bt takes it a step further by adding a sense of longing on the individual level: "...ethnicity is the sense of
people-hood held by members of a group sharing a common culture and history within a society".

Bamass argues the assumption: "ethnicity and nationalism are not 'givens', but are social and political constructions"- they are the 
creations of elites

Kruger(1993:12) - "mere differences in values or regional development, or between ethnic grops for that matter do not as such promote 
ethnicity and ethnic conflict".

Brass states - "Ethnic self-consciousness, ethnically based demands, and ethnic conflict can occur if there is some conflict either between
indigenous and external elites and authorities or between indigenous elites."


Assumption on Culture and Conflict
Culture simply means the sum-total of all human existence which comprises of norms, values, traditions, beliefs, customs, e.t.c..
Glenn Fisher in a book called Mindset and in this chapter in Weaver's book (1998:140) characterises two kinds of societies, those based on
i) Achievement and
ii) Ascription

Weaver likens culture to an iceberg, in which only the tip is seen above the water line. Beliefs are interrelated and form "belief system",
which because they are learnt early in life, are difficult to change.

Geert Hofstede in Weaver 1998:148-158 describes four dimensions by which he placed a number of societies on graphs:
Power distance - defines the extent to which the less powerful person in a society accepts inequality in power and considers it normal
Individualism - opposes collectivism, Individualist cultures assume individuals look primarily after their own interest and those of their
immediate family. 
Collectivist cultures assume that individuals belong to one or more close "in-groups" from which they cannot detach themselves.
A collectivist society is tightly integrated and an individualist society is loosely integrated

Hofstede characterises 
- American and Northern European societies as generally having low power distance and high individualism. 
- Many African and Latin American societies have large power distance and low individualism.
- Some Southern European societies have large power distance and medium individualism.

John Paul Lederach (one of the best known theorists and practitioners in the field of conflict transformation today) posits that - 
"Social conflict emerges and develops on the basis of the meaning and interpretaion people involved attach to action and events."
Conflict is related to meaning, meaning to knowledge, and knowledge is rooted in culture.
Herbert Blummer (1969) emphasised the importance of symbols and meanings attach to them.

The Role Theories of Turner
Role is defined as that set of activities associated with any given position in an organisation, which include potential behaviours in
that positio, and not only those of the incumbent in question. Although Turner accepts a process orientation, he was committed to 
developing ineractionism into "something akin to axiomatic theory". He recognised that role theory was segmented into a series of narrow
propositions and hypotheses and that role theorist had been reluctant "to find unifying themes to link various role processes."

Turner's strategy was to use propositions from the numerous research studies to build more formal and abstract theoretical statements.








NOTE: Study lesson 3 to 5 using the handout in order to complete section 1





























