CMP 401 EXAM PREP THEORY
Best Practice: Study using a big screen device. Be it a laptop or a tablet. It won't be best to use phones (even though y'all ain't with your phones 😉)



----------------------------------------------------------------



SLIDE I



1a. List 5 areas of computer applications?
 b. What is Natural language?
    i. What makes up the structure of a language?
    ii. list 5 examples of natural language?

2a. What is a Programming language?
    i. List 7 Programming languages?
 b. List all 3 categories of programming languages?
    i. Discuss how procedural programming languages work and list 3 procedural languages?
    ii. Discuss how functional programming languages work and list 3 functional languages?
    iii. Discuss how Object-oriented programming languages work and list 3 Object-oriented languages?
 c. List 5 reasons why one should study programming languages?

3a. List the 3 national standards bodies that define Language standards?
    i. There are 4 ways this organizations work to define Language standards. Name them?
    ii. How often are standards reviewed?
 b. why are standards important?

4. SKIPPED: Language definition

5a. List 4 criteria for Evaluating a programming language?
 b. Discuss the below
    - Readability
    - Writability
    - Reliability
      i. List 4 characteristic used in measuring Reliability of programming languages
    - Cost
      i. List and briefly discuss the 4 characteristics that lead to the total cost of programming languages?

6a. What are the 2 factors that influence Language Design?
 b. Discuss Computer Architecture?
    i. What is the von Neumann architecture
    ii. Who was the main originator of this architecture?
    iii. Discuss the von Neumann Architecture?
          a. Draw a diagram of the von Neumann Architecture?
          b. The execution of machine code on this architecture is called what?
          c. Where is the address of the next instruction to be executed in this architecture located at?
          d. List the steps in the fetch-execute cycle?
          f. What are the 2 primary components of a digital computer that uses the von Neumann Architecture?
 d. Discuss Language Implementation method and what it requires and its primitives?

7a. List the 3 fundamental methods used for implementing a programming language?
 b. Discuss the Compilation method?
    i. List 3 languages that makes use of the compilation method
    ii. Draw a diagram showing the phases involved in the compilation method?
    iii. The language which the compiler translates is the ____________?
    iv. Discuss the below compilation phases?
        a. Lexical Analyzer
        b. Syntax Analyzer
        c. Intermediate code generator
        d. Semantic Analyzer
        e. Optimization
        f. Code Generator
  c. Discuss the Pure Interpretation method?
     i. List 2 advantages of the Pure level interpretation method
     ii. List 3 disadvantages
     iii. Draw a diagram of a Pure Interpretation program
  d. Discuss Hybrid Implementation?
     i. Why is Hybrid Implementation method faster than pure interpretation
     ii. Draw a diagram showing the phases in the Hybrid Implementation method?
     iii. Explain Java Hybrid Implementation
     iv. Systems that translate javas byte code into machine code faster than Java Virtual Machine are known as ______________

Syntax and Semantics
8a. What is syntax and what is semantics?
 b. For example, the syntax of a Java while statement is
    while (boolean_expr) statement
    Explain the semantics behind the statement




















