CMP 401 EXAM PREP THEORY
Best Practice: Study using a big screen device. Be it a laptop or a tablet. It won't be best to use phones (even though y'all ain't with your phones 😉)



----------------------------------------------------------------



SLIDE I



1a. List 5 areas of computer applications?
ans: - Scientific Applications
     - Business Applications
     - Artificial Intelligence
     - Web Software
     - Medicine

 b. What is Natural language?
 ans: The Natural Language is a structured system of communication used by 
      humans through speech, signs, gestures and writing

    i. What makes up the structure of a language?
    ans: Grammar and vocabulary

    ii. list 5 examples of natural language?
    ans: - English
         - Spanish
         - French
         - Portuguese
         - Chinese


2a. What is a Programming language?
ans: Programming language is the vocabulary and a set of grammatical rules 
     used to instruct computers

    i. List 7 Programming languages?
    ans: - Java
         - C/C++
         - COBOL
         - Prolog
         - Python
         - Javascript
         - Golang
         - Rust

 b. List all 3 categories of programming languages?
 ans: - procedural programming languages
      - functional programming languages
      - object oriented programming languages

    i. Discuss how procedural programming languages work and list 3 procedural languages?
    ans: - These are used to execute a sequence of statements
         - These languages use multiple variables and heavy loops to 
           execute their problems.
         - In procedural languages, functions may control variables other 
           than return values. For example, printing.
         - Examples of procedural languages include:
           - Basic, C/C++, Java, FORTRAN and Pascal

    ii. Discuss how functional programming languages work and list 3 functional languages?
    ans: - These languages use stored data and frequently avoid loops in 
           favour of recursive functions to execute their problems.
         - These languages focus primarily on the return values of 
           functions.
         - Functional languages are easier and allow programmers to easily 
           focus on abstract issues.
         - Examples include:
           - Python, Lisp and Erlang

    iii. Discuss how Object-oriented programming languages work and list 3 Object-oriented languages?
    ans: - These programming languages view the world as a group of objects 
           that have internal data and parts of the data can be accessed 
           externally.
         - The aim is to think about a collection of objects and services 
           that can be offered in specific problems.
         - The major principle here is encapsulation which puts everything 
           an object would need into the object.
         - These languages thrive on reusability and inheritance.
         - Examples include:
           - Java, Python, C++, Lisp, and Perl

 c. List 5 reasons why one should study programming languages?
 ans: - To improve our ability to develop effective Algorithms
      - To improve our use of your existing Programming Languages
      - To increase our vocabulary of useful programming constructs
      - To allow a better choice of programming language
      - To make it easier to learn a new language
      - To make it easier to design a new language


3a. List the 3 national standards bodies that define Language standards?
ans: IS0 - International Standards Organization
     ANSI - American National Standards Institute
     IEEE - Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering 

    i. There are 4 steps this organizations take to defining Language 
       standards. Name them?
    ans: - Working group of volunteers set up to define standard
         - Agree on features for new standard
         - Vote on standard
         - If approved by working group, submitted to parent organization 
           for approval

    ii. How often are standards reviewed?
    ans: Once every 5 years

 b. why are standards important?
 ans: - Standards ensure language conformity with rules and laws.
      - Standards define behavior/constructs of language - one that
        meets the rules of language standards.

4a. How are Languages defined?
ans: They are defined on the basis of characters and symbols which are 
     strung up to form words or signs
 b.     

5a. List 4 of the commonly used criteria for Evaluating a programming 
    language?
ans: - Readability
     - Writability
     - Reliability
     - Cost 

 b. Discuss the below
    - Readability
    - Writability
    - Reliability
      i. List 4 characteristic used in measuring Reliability of programming languages
    - Cost
      i. List and briefly discuss the 4 characteristics that lead to the total cost of programming languages?

6a. What are the 2 factors that influence Language Design?
 b. Discuss Computer Architecture?
    i. What is the von Neumann architecture
    ii. Who was the main originator of this architecture?
    iii. Discuss the von Neumann Architecture?
          a. Draw a diagram of the von Neumann Architecture?
          b. The execution of machine code on this architecture is called what?
          c. Where is the address of the next instruction to be executed in this architecture located at?
          d. List the steps in the fetch-execute cycle?
          f. What are the 2 primary components of a digital computer that uses the von Neumann Architecture?
 d. Discuss Language Implementation method and what it requires and its primitives?

7a. List the 3 fundamental methods used for implementing a programming language?
 b. Discuss the Compilation method?
    i. List 3 languages that makes use of the compilation method
    ii. Draw a diagram showing the phases involved in the compilation method?
    iii. The language which the compiler translates is the ____________?
    iv. Discuss the below compilation phases?
        a. Lexical Analyzer
        b. Syntax Analyzer
        c. Intermediate code generator
        d. Semantic Analyzer
        e. Optimization
        f. Code Generator
  c. Discuss the Pure Interpretation method?
     i. List 2 advantages of the Pure level interpretation method
     ii. List 3 disadvantages
     iii. Draw a diagram of a Pure Interpretation program
  d. Discuss Hybrid Implementation?
     i. Why is Hybrid Implementation method faster than pure interpretation
     ii. Draw a diagram showing the phases in the Hybrid Implementation method?
     iii. Explain Java Hybrid Implementation
     iv. Systems that translate javas byte code into machine code faster than Java Virtual Machine are known as ______________

Syntax and Semantics
8a. What is syntax and what is semantics?
 b. For example, the syntax of a Java while statement is
    while (boolean_expr) statement
    Explain the semantics behind the statement



----------------------------------------------------------------



SLIDE II


1a. Whether it is natural or not, a language is only a __________________
 b. Lexemes are partitioned into groups. List just 2?
 c. What is a token?
 d. State the lexeme and it's equivalent token for the below programming 
    statement 
    index = 2*count+17;
 e. Languages are formally defined in 2 distinct ways. Name them?
    i. Explain Language Recognition   
    ii. Explain Language Generation   

2a. What are grammars?
 b. What are the 2 most widely used syntax description methods?

3a. Discuss Backus-Naur Form (BNF)?
    i. What is a Meta language?
 b. What is Grammar?
 c. What is Derivation?
 d. How is the sentence for a language derived?
 
























