Exam Prep Questions

Answers can be found at 

1a. Definition
 i. What is a model and what is it made up of
 ii. What is modelling
 iii. What is Simulation

 b. Discuss why Modelling and Simulations is important
 c. What is Computer Simulation or Computer model
    i. List the 2 types of Computer Simulations and state the 3 general purposes they are used for
    ii. Discuss Equation-based Simulations
    iii. Discuss Agent-based simulations

 d. Discuss Multiscale Simulations
    i. What are the 2 types of Multiscale Simulations
    ii. Discuss serial multiscale and parallel multiscale Simulations

2a. Define Monte Carlo Simulations and further discuss
 b. List the types of Data/Information needed to develop a Simulation Model
 c. Draw a diagram of the Modeling process and discuss each phase in the 
    process
 d. List 5 different applications of modelling in todays industries

3a. What is Systems and Components and further discuss
 b. What are systems?

4a. List the 4 types of Models
 b. Discuss Discrete Models?
 c. Discuss Continuous Models?
 d. Draw a graphical example of Discrete and continuous models?
 e. Discuss Deterministic Models
 f. Discuss Stochastic Models

5a. What are Random Numbers?
    i. List 4 application areas of random numbers?
 b. What are RNG (Random Number Generators)?
    i. List the 2 types of Random Numbers and Random Numbers Generators
    ii. Explain them below
        - Pseudorandom Numbers
        - True Random Numbers
 c. List 8 properties of a good Random Number Generator and discuss 4
 d. Draw a diagram showing Pseudorandom Number Generators work

6a. Discuss the Congruential method?
 b. What are the key considerations when using the congruential method
 c. Discuss the below:
    - Seed value
    - Period length
    - Statistical properties
 d. What is RANECU and briefly discuss?
 e. List and explain the key features of RANECU?
 f. Discuss the Quadrature congruential method?
 g. List just 2 types of Pseudorandom Number Generators (PRNG)?

7a. What is a Queuing system?
 b. What is a Queuing model?
 c. List 2 goals of a Queuing model?
 d. Name the 2 available approaches to performance analysis of a queuing system?
 e. Discuss Analytical model solution?

8a. List 5 attributes of a Queuing Model.
    i. Explain Call population
    ii. Explain Arrival and Service pattern
        - What is arrival rate and service rate?
        - What happens if the arrival rate is less than the service rate
    iii. Explain Queue discipline
        - List the 4 common queue discipline algorithms
    iv.  Explain Queue capacity
    v.   Explain Number of servers    
 b. List and explain the 3 customer decisions on a queue?
 c. List all 3 types of Queuing models?
    i. Draw the diagram of all 3 types of Queuing models
       - Under each queuing model diagram explain what takes place

9a. Discuss Little's Law?
 b. Queuing Network are classified into 2 types. Name them?
    i. What is a token?
 c. What happens in an open and a closed queuing network?
 d. What is the main difference between the open and the closed queuing network?