1a. Modeling
    A simplified formal description is created with the real world system as the item of interest and this would serve as the basis for the subsequent computation. This involves
    - examining the real world
    - extracting essential information from the real world
    - construction of the model 

    Computation
    uses the model and preprocesses it in order to ensure that it is compatible with a computer platform. The solution of the processed model requires the identification of efficient algorithms

    Implementation
    The computational algorithms must implemented efficiently on the target architecture or architectures 

    Virtualization
    The data gotten from the ran simulation must be interpreted

    Validation
    How reliable are the results? Do sources for errors lurk in te model, code, algorithm, or in the interpretation of the results. Depending on the source of error the process restarts at that point

    Embedding
    Simulations take place in a context e.g a development or production environment should be integrated accordingly, 

b. done

2a. discrete vs continuous
    Deterministic vs Stochastic


 b. 
    1. Discrete Model
    Discrete values: Variables that hold discrete values representing 
     integers or countable sets. They deal with countable data that is finite with nothing between them e.g count of items, number of students in a class
    Time Steps: Discrete models advance in time through discrete time steps.
     Events occur at a specific time point, and systems state changes instantaneously at these time steps
    Applications: Discrete models are used in computer science, discrete 
     mathematics, combinatorics etc

    2. Continuous Model
    Continuous values: This with data that is measurable in fractions containing decimal values. 

    Continuous time: Continuous models describes system where time is continuous and flows smoothly, rather than advancing in discrete time steps. System state changes happens smoothly and continuous over time

    Applications: Continuous models are used in physics, engineering, 
    mathematical calculus

  
  c. Deterministic vs Stochastic

    1. Deterministic
       - this model assumes that the input parameters and initial conditions are known with certainty (...)
       - the outcome is entirely determined by the inputs and model structure
       - they are represented by equation and produce a single output 
       for a given set of inputs
    2. Stochastic
       - incorporates randomness and uncertainty explicitly into the modelling process
       - They assume that certain aspects of the system are inherently random and they account for this randomness using probability distributions
       - The exact same parameter input and initial conditions will yeild an ensemble of different outputs

    
  3a. Random Numbers are numbers that show no consistent pattern with each number in a series and neither are they affected by preceding values, nor predictable from it
  b. RNG are hardware device or software algorithm that generates a number taken from a range of limited or unlimited distribution and outputs it

  i. Pseudorandom Number and True random Number

  Pseudorandom Number
  - They are generated by algorithms and are not truly random but appear 
    random
  - They are deterministic and based on an initial value seed
  - If you use the same seed, u will get the same sequence of numbers
  - They are widely used in computer programs

  True random number
  - They are generated from the source of true randomness
  - such as atmospheric noise or radioactive decay
  - They are not predictable and are not generated by algorithms
  - They are used in applications with a high demand for unpredictability and security, such as in a cryptographic system

ii. Uniform Distribution
    Periodicity
    Independence
    Reproducibility
    Statistical Unpredictability
    Low Bias
    Speed and Efficiency
    Periodic Checks
    Resistance to predictive attacks
    seed initialization

c. done

d. Congruential Method is an algorithm that is used in generating pseudo 
   random numbers

4a. Queuing System is a system where customers request for a service from a 
     finite-capacity resource

 b. Queuing Models are models that are constructed to analyze the 
    performance of a dynamic system where waiting occurs 

c. To minimize the number of waiting customers in a Queue
   To predict the estimate number of facilities in a Queue
   The performance result for a queuing model simulation are produced at the end of the simulation in the form of aggregate statistics

d. Analytical modelling - an abstraction of a system based on probability theory
   Simulation 