CMP 410 EXAM PREP


----------------------------------------------------------------

LECTURE 1
PAGE 166 - 179




DATA COMMUNICATION



1a. What is Computer used for?
ans: Computer is used to capture, process, store, generate and communicate 
     data/ information.

b. What is Data Communication(DC)?
ans: DC is the active process of transporting data/ information from one 
     point to another

d. Data communication can be on ________ or ________ connectivity
ans: wired, wireless

e. The Effectiveness of data communication system depends on 3 fundamental 
   characteristics. Name them
ans: - Delivery
     - Accuracy
     - Timeliness

e1. Explain all 3
ans: - Delivery: The system must deliver data to the correct destination
     - Accuracy: The system must deliver data accurately
     - Timeliness: The system must deliver data in a timely manner.

f. List 8 Standards Organization for Data Communication?
ans: - International Standard Organization (ISO)
     - International Telecommunications Union-Telecommunication Sector (ITU-T)
     - Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
     - American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
     - Electronics Industry Association (EIA)
     - Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA)
     - Internet Architecture Board (IAB)
     - Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
     - Internet Research Task Force (IRTF)

g. List and explain the 5 major Data Communication components?
ans: - Transmitter: is the device that sends the message, it can be a 
       computer, workstations, telephone e.t.c
     - Receiver: Is the device that receives the message. It can be a 
       computer, workstation telephone e.t.c
     - Medium: is the physical path by which a message travels from the 
       sender to receiver through pair wire, coaxial cable, fiber-optic 
       cable, radio waves etc
     - Message: is the transmission (data) to be communicated. It can 
       consist of text, number, picture, sound, video. etc
     - Protocol: is a set of rules that governs data communication. It 
       represents an agreement between the communicating devices. Without 
       a protocol, two device may be connected but not communicating.

h. What is Data Communication Circuits?
ans: Data communication circuit provides a transmission path between 
     locations and transfers digital information from one station 
     (node, where computers or other digital equipment are located) to 
     another using electronic circuits

h1. Draw a diagram of Data Communication Circuits?
ans: Slide 1 (page 169)

h2. Discuss what takes place on each step in the above diagram?
ans: - Source: This device generates the data to be transmitted; examples 
       are mainframe computer, personal computer, workstation Mobile 
       Station etc. The source equipment provides a means for humans to 
       enter data into system.
     - Transmitter: A transmitter transforms and encodes the information 
       in such a way as to produce electromagnetic signals that can be 
       transmitted across some sort of transmission system. For example, a 
       modem takes a digital bit stream from an attached device such as a 
       personal computer and transforms that bit stream into an analog 
       signal that can be handled by the telephone network.
     - Transmission medium: The transmission medium carries the 
       electromagnetic signals from the transmitter to the receiver. 
       Different types of transmission media include free-space radio 
       transmission (wireless transmission) and physical facilities such as 
       metallic and optical fiber cables. 
     - Receiver: The receiver accepts the signal from the transmission 
       medium and converts it into a form that can be handled by the 
       destination device. For example, a modem will accept an analog 
       signal coming from a network or transmission line and convert it 
       into a digital bit stream.
     - Destination: Takes the incoming data from the receiver and can be 
       any kind of digital equipment like the source

i. Transmission mediums are also known as _______?
ans: Channels

j. What is the capacity of a Channel?
ans: It is the maximum amount of signals or traffic that a channel can 
     carry

j1. How is the capacity of a Channel measured?
ans: it is measured in terms of bandwidth and data transfer rate. Bandwidth 
     is measured in Hertz (1KHz = 1000 Hz)
 
j2. What is the bandwidth of a Channel?
ans: It is the range of frequencies available for transmission of data 
     through that channel

j3. Higher bandwidth equals (=) what?
ans: Higher data rate

j4. Data travels in the form of ____________ over channels?
ans: electromagnetic signals

j5. Data signal carries ____ or ____ bits over the channel.
ans: 1 or 2

j6. What is Data transfer rate?
ans: it is the number of bits transmitted between source and destination in 
     1 second. It is measured in terms of bits per second (bps)

j7. Answer the below
1 Kbps = ?
1 Mbps = ?       
1 Gbps = ?
1 Tbps = ?
ans: 1 Kbps = 1024 bps    
     1 Mbps = 1024 Kbps       
     1 Gbps = 1024 Mbps  
     1 Tbps = 1024 Gbps

j8. What is the formula for calculating Data Transfer Rate speed?
ans: S = A ÷ T
     where:
     S = speed (or rate) of transfer
     A = Amount of data
     T = Time 

j9. Calculation. Determine the speed or the rate of transfer 
    of 25 megabyte(mb) in 2 min.
ans: S = A ÷ T
     where:
     A = 25mb
     T = 2min * 60sec = 120sec
     S = 25mb ÷ 120sec = 0.208mbps
     #Convert mbps to Kbps
     0.208mbps * 1024kbps = 212.9kbps

j10. Calculation. You transferred 100 GB at a rate of 7 MB/s. 
     Compute the Time required for the transfer.
ans: T = A ÷ S
     where:
     T = ?
     A = 100gb
     S = 7mbps
     # convert 100gb to mb
     100gb * 1024mb = 102400mb
     T = 102400mb ÷ 7mbps
       = 14628.6sec
     # convert to hour
     14628.6sec ÷ 60 ÷ 60 = 4.06hours

j11. A user wants to upload a text document at the rate of 
     10 pages per 20 seconds. What will be the required data 
     rate of the  channel ?. Assume that 1 page contains 1600 
     characters and each character is of 8 bits.
ans: S = A ÷ T
     where:
     A = 10pages * 1600 characters * 8bits = 128000bits
     T = 20seconds
     S = 128000bits/20seconds
     S = 6400bps
     # convert to Kbps
       = 6400bps ÷ 1024b
       = 6.25kbps

k. What is the transmission medium?
ans: The transmission medium is the physical path between 
     transmitter and receiver in a data transmission system. 
     It is included in the physical layer of the OSI protocol hierarchy.

l. The Transmission media can be generally categorized as either 
   _______ or _________?
ans: unguided, guided

m. Explain Guided Transmission Media?
ans: Guided Transmission Media uses a "cabling" system (or 
     some sort of conductor) that guides the data signals along 
     a specific path. The data signals are bound by the "cabling" system.  
     The conductor directs the signal propagating down it.

n. Guided Media is also known as __________?
ans: Bound Media

o. List 2 examples of Guided Transmission media?
ans: Coaxial Copper
     Twisted-pair
     Fiber optic

p. Draw the hierarchy diagram of Communication/Transmission medium?
ans: Slide 1 (page 178)

q. Explain Unguided Transmission Media?
ans: Unguided Transmission Media is a means for data signals 
     to travel without anything to guide them along a specific path.

r. The data signals in unguided media are not bound to a 
   cabling media and as such are often called _________?
ans: Unbound Media

s. ___________ are wireless systems
ans: Unguided transmission media

t. Signals propagating down an unguided transmission medium are 
   available to ___________
ans: Anyone who has a device capable of receiving them

     









LECTURE 2
page 1 - 14












2a. What is a Computer Network?
ans: it is a set of computers and devices connected together 
     for the purpose of sharing resources

b. Networks are classified into 5 places. List all 5?
ans: - Medium used to transport the data
     - Communication protocol used
     - Scale
     - Topology
     - Organizational scope, etc

c. List the major Components of the Network?
ans: - End stations
     - Applications and;
     - A network that will support traffic between the end 
       stations

d. List the components, functions and features of a Network?
ans: - servers
     - clients
     - transmission media
     - shared data
     - shared printers and other peripherals
     - hardware and software resources
     - network interface card (NIC)
     - local operating system (LOS) 
     - network operating system (NOS)

d1. Explain how 5 of the above listed?
ans: - Servers: Servers are computers that hold shared files, 
       programs and the network operating system. Servers 
       provide access to network resources to all the users 
       of the network and different kinds of servers are 
       present.
     - Clients: Clients are computers that access and use the 
       network and access network resources.
     - Shared Data: Shared data are data that file servers 
       provide to clients, such as data files, printer access 
       programs, and e-mail
     - Shared Printers and other peripherals: these are 
       hardware resources provided to the users of the 
       network by servers. 
     - Network interface card: Every computer in the network 
       has a special expansion card called network interface 
       card (NIS), which prepares and sends data, receives 
       data, and controls data flow between the computer and 
       the network.

e. List 8 Benefits of a network?
ans: - File sharing
     - Printer sharing
     - Internet connection sharing
     - Multi-player games
     - Home entertainment
     - Enables access to remote networks
     - Facilitate communications
     - Facilitate information dissemination
     - Overall cost reduction in Hardware and software.
     - Facilitate Social networks

f. List 4 desirable criteria for a Network?
ans: - Performance
     - Reliability
     - Security

g. List the 2 Network Models?
ans: - Peer-to-peer network
     - Dedicated client/server network

h. Draw a diagram of a typical Network Architecture?
ans: Slide 1 (page 13)

     









LECTURE 2
page 34 - 48













3a. What is Network Security?
ans: it is the protection of the underlying networking 
     infrastructure from unauthorized access, misuse, or 
     theft.

b. List 5 types of Network Security?
ans: - Firewalls
     - Intrusion prevention systems
     - Workload security
     - Network segmentation
     - Web security
     - Wireless security
     - VPN
     - Access control
     - Anti-virus and anti-malware software
     - Application security
     - Behavioral analytics
     - Cloud security
     - Data loss prevention
     - Email security
     - Mobile device security
     - Security information and event management

c. List 5 Cyber Attacks?
ans: - Malware Attack
     - Phishing Attack
     - Password Attack
     - Man-in-the-Middle Attack
     - SQL Injection Attack
     - Denial-of-Service Attack
     - Insider Threat
     - Cryptojacking

d. List 7 ways of Securing Networks?
ans: - Use strong passwords.
     - Keep everything updated.
     - Turn on encryption.
     - Use a VPN.
     - Use multiple firewalls.
     - Rename routers and networks.
     - Turn off the WPS setting.

e. Who are Hackers?
ans: Hackers are digital safecrackers who use their computer 
     skills to break into restricted digital spaces, such as 
     networks, servers, personal devices, online accounts, 
     and cloud infrastructure

f. List all types of Hackers?
ans: - White hat hackers
     - Black hat hackers
     - Gray hat hackers
     - Red hat hackers
     - Malicious insider (whistleblower)
     - Blue hat hackers
     - Script kiddies and green hat hackers
     - Hacktivists
     - State/nation-sponsored hackers

f1. Briefly explain the different types of Hackers listed 
   above?
ans: - White hat hackers: are paid to infiltrate digital 
       systems to identify potential security vulnerabilities 
       and report their findings to their clients.
     - Black hat hackers: are cyber criminals who orchestrate 
       scams and exploit vulnerabilities with the intent to 
       cause harm. The aim of black hat hackers is usually to 
       make money.
     - Gray hat hackers: infiltrate systems without their 
       targets’ consent, but they don’t exploit 
       vulnerabilities to cause harm. Instead, they inform 
       the victims of the hack in order to help them improve 
       their security.
     - Red hat hackers: Red hat hackers see themselves as the 
       “superheroes” of the hacking world. They 
       typically target black hat hackers to disrupt their 
       attacks or retaliate against them.
     - Malicious insider (whistleblower): is someone who 
       works for an organization and decides to expose 
       wrongdoing from within
     - Blue hat hackers: are white hat hackers who 
       are employed by an organization. Their job is to 
       maintain the cybersecurity of the organization and 
       prevent attacks.
     - Script kiddies and green hat hackers: These are 
       inexperienced hackers, they use existing malware and 
       scripts created by other hackers to launch their 
       attacks.
     - Hacktivists: Hacktivists are people who hack into 
       systems to fight back against perceived political or 
       social injustice.
     - State/nation-sponsored hackers: State-sponsored 
       hackers work for governments. Some are white hat 
       hackers who work to improve national cybersecurity, 
       but others use black hat tactics to harm other 
       countries.

g. What is Cryptography?
ans: Cryptography is a technique use to encrypt the main text 
     which makes it difficult to understand and interpret by 
     unauthorized user.

h. List 3 types of Cryptography algorithm used as solutions 
   to Security Threats?
ans: - Secret key
     - Public key
     - Message digest

h1. Explain all listed above?
ans: - Secret key: In secrete key encryption, both the sender 
       and receiver have one secrete key. The secrete key is 
       used to encrypt the plain text from the user’s end to 
       cypher text and the same secrete key at receiver end 
       will decrypt the data to plain text.
     - Public key: In this encryption system, every user has 
       its own secrete key, the secrete key is not revealed 
       on public domain. The senders use this key to encrypt 
       the plaintext and every users uses his own secrete key 
       to decrypt the cypher text to plain text.
     - Message digest: In this encryption system, actual data 
       is not send, instead a hash value is calculated and 
       send. The other end user computes its own hash value 
       and compares with the one just received if both  hash 
       value are matched, then it is accepted, otherwise 
       rejected

     









LECTURE 3
page 206 - 232













3a. What is Multiplexing?
ans: it is a technique that divides high capacity medium into 
     low capacity logical medium which is then shared by 
     different streams

b. What is the Multiplexer (MUX)?
ans: It is a device used to carry out multiplexing, it 
     combines input lines to generate one output line i.e 
     (Many to one)

c. What is Demultiplexer (DEMUX)?
ans: it is a device at the receiving end that is used to 
     separate signal into its component Signal i.e. (one to 
     many)

d. Draw a diagram of Multiplexing?
ans: Slide 1 (page 209)

e. List 2 advantages of multiplexing?
ans: - More than one signals can be sent over single medium 
       or link.
     - Effective use of the bandwidth of medium.

f. Draw a diagram showing the Multiplexing tree structure?
ans: Slide 1 (page 211)

g. List the 3 types of Multiplexing?
ans: - Frequency Division Multiplexing (FDM)
     - Wave Division Multiplexing (WDM)
     - Time Division Multiplexing

h. Discuss FDM?
ans: - It is an analog techniques.
     - Signals of different frequencies are combine into a 
       composite signal and is transmitted through a single 
       link.
     - Bandwidth of the link should be greater than the 
       combined bandwidth of the various channels.
     - Each signal is having different frequency.
     - Channels are separated by the strips of unused 
       bandwidth called Guard Bands (to prevent overlapping)

h1. Draw a diagram of FDM?
ans: Slide 1 (page 213)

h2. List 3 applications of FDM?
ans: - FDM  is used for FM and AM radio Broadcasting
     - AM frequency is 530 to 1700 KHZ
     - FM frequency is 88 to 108 MHZ
     - FDM is used in television broadcasting.
     - First generation cellular telephone also used FDM

i. Discuss WDM?
ans: - WDM is an analogue multiplexing technology.
     - Working is same as FDM
     - In WDM different signals are optical or light signals 
       that are transmitted through optical fiber.
     - Various light wires from different sources are 
       combined to form a composite light signal that is 
       transmitted across the channel to the receiver.
     - At the received end, this composite light signal is
       broken into different light waves by demultiplex.
     - This combination and the splitting of light waves is
       done by using a PRISM. Prism bends beam of the light 
       based on the angle of incidence and the frequency of 
       light wave

i1. Draw a diagram for WDM?
ans: Slide 1 (page 217)

j. Discuss TDM?
ans: - It is the digital multiplexing technique
     - Channel or link is divided on the  basis of time.
     - Total time available in the channel is divided between 
       several users.
     - Each user is allotted a particular time interval 
       called time slot or slice.
     - In TDM the data rate capacity of the transmission 
       medium should be greater than the data rate required 
       by sending and receiving devices

i1. Draw a diagram for TDM?
ans: Slide 1 (page 219)

i2. List the 2 types of TDM?
ans: - Synchronous 
     - Asynchronous

Stopped at page 220

     









LECTURE 4
page 233 - 250













4a. What is Network Switching?
ans: It is the technique of transferring data or information 
     from one computer network to another network

     Additionally:
     - Network switches operate at layer 2 (Data link layer) 
       in the OSI model
     - Switching is transparent to the user and does not 
       require any configuration in the home network
     - Switches are used to forward the packets based on MAC
       addresses.
     - It is operated in full duplex mode.
     - Packet collision is minimum as it directly 
       communicates between source and destination.

b. What is a switch?
ans: It is a hardware device which is used to join multiple 
     computers together with one local area network (LAN)

c. What is ingress?
ans: The incoming data to a port/node

d. What is the outgoing data from a port/node?
ans: egress

e. Why is the Switching Concept required?
ans: - Bandwidth
     - Collision

f. List the advantages of Switching?
ans: - Switch increases the bandwidth of the network
     - It reduces the workload on individual PCs as it sends 
       the information to only that device which has been 
       addressed.
     - It increases the overall performance of the network by 
       reducing the traffic on the network.
     - There will be less frame collision as switch creates 
       the collision domain for each connection

g. List the disadvantages of Switching?
ans: - A Switch is more expensive than network bridges.
     - A Switch cannot determine the network connectivity 
       issues easily.
     - Proper designing and configuration of the switch are 
       required to handle multicast packets

h. What is a switch in the Computer Network?
ans: it refers to the networking devices that operate at an 
     OSI model’s layer 2 or data link layer.

     Additionally:
     - They establish connections between networked devices 
       and employ packet switching to transmit, receive, or 
       forward data packets or frames over the network.
     - There are numerous ports on a switch where computers 
       can be connected. 
     - A network switch evaluates the destination address of 
       each data frame that enters one of its ports, runs any 
       necessary checks, and then sends the frame to the 
       appropriate device(s).
     - It enables broadcast, multicast, and unicast 
       communication.

i. List the features of Switches?
ans: - Switches function in the OSI model’s layer 2 or data 
       connection layer.
     - It is a smart network appliance that resembles a 
       multiport network bridge.
     - The media access control (MAC) sublayer addresses are 
       used to transport data packets to certain target ports.
     - It uses packet switching technology to transmit data 
       packets (from the source device to the target device).
     - It allows one-to-one (unicast), one-to-many 
       (multicast), and one-to-all (broadcast) communications.
     - Full duplex transmission (means that communication in 
       the channel happens in both directions at once. As a 
       result, collisions do not happen).
     - Switches are operational hardware that has network 
       management and software capabilities.
     - They can carry out error checking before sending data 
       to the target port.
     - There are a total of 24/48 ports (which is more than 
       usual)

j. List the types of switches?
ans: - Unmanaged Switch
     - Managed Switch
     - LAN Switch
     - PoE Switch

k. Draw a diagram showing the taxonomy of Switched Network?
ans: Slide 1 (page 243)

l. List the 3 main types of switching?
ans: - Circuit Switching
     - Packet Switching
     - Message Switching
 
k. Discuss Circuit Switching?
ans: - Transmission  of data between two nodes are done over 
       a dedicated communication path.
     - A pre-specified route is created for which data 
       travels and no other data is permitted.
     - Transmission in circuit switching have to go through 
       three phases.
       - Establish a circuit
       - Transfer the data.
       - Disconnect the circuit
     Circuit switching are primarily design for voice communications. Before a user can make a call, a virtual path between caller and callee is established over the network.

l. Discuss Packet Switching?
ans: - Transmission data is broken down into smaller chunks 
       called packets.
     - A switching information is added in the header of each 
       packets.
     - Data transmission of packets over the network is done 
       independently.
     - These packets are sometime store on the intermediate 
       networking devices and they do not take much resources 
       either on carried path or in the memory of switches.
     - Packets switching enhances transmission efficiently as 
       packets from multiple communication channels can be 
       multiplexed.
     - The internet uses packets switching techniques.
     - Packet are stored and forwarded according to their 
       priority to provide quality of service.

l1. List the 2 types of Packet Switching?
ans: - Connectionless Communication
     - Connection oriented communication

m. Discuss Message Switching?
ans: - This technique is somewhere in middle of circuit 
       switching and packets switching.
     - In message switching, the whole data is treated as a 
       data units, and is transmitted in its entirety (whole).
     - A switch receives the whole data unit and buffers it 
       until there are resources available to transfer it to 
       the next node.
     - If the next node does not have enough resource to 
       accommodate the data unit, the data unit have to waits 
       on the current node.
     - Message switching has the following drawbacks
     - Every switch in the transit path needs enough storage 
       to accommodate entire message.
     - Because of the store-and-forward technique and waits 
       of the availability of resources, message switching is 
       very slow.
     - Message switching is not suitable for real time 
       application.

n. List at least 5 benefits of Packet switching over the 
   others?
ans: - Packets switching ensures that no user monopolize any 
       transmission line very long, enhance it is suited for 
       handling interactive traffic
     - Packet switching reduce delay and improve throughput 
       than message switching
     - Packet switching does not require any advance setup,
       while circuit switching requires that a circuit be 
       setup end to end before communication begins
     - Packet switching is more fault tolerant than circuit 
       switching.
     - Packet switching does not waste bandwidth

     









LECTURE 5
page 180 - 183














5a. What is wave?
ans: A wave is a disturbance in a medium that carries energy 
     without a net movement of particles

b. What are the 2 basic types of waves?
ans: Longitudinal and Transverse

c. Explain Longitudinal and Transverse waves?
ans: - With longitudinal waves, the displacement is parallel 
       in the direction of propagation e.g. Earthquake, ultrasound, sound waves in air, etc.
     - With transverse waves, the displacement is 
       perpendicular to the direction of propagation. e.g Electromagnetic waves, guitar string, etc.

d. What are the 3 main characteristics of Electromagnetic 
   waves
ans: - Wave velocity
     - Frequency
     - Wavelength

Stopped at page 181

















