xEXAM PREP



NOTE: study only module 4 for the upcoming test and module 1 to 4 for the exam


MODULE ONE



NOTE: Put in the work. Study this material and you will be good. 

The History and Development of Entrepreneurship


1a. Talk about the history of entrepreneurship?
 Ans: The history of entrepreneurship has been tied with the events and activities carried out globally overtime. These includes:
      The beginning of trade, formation of cities, trade routes, invention of money, creation of markets and machines, the industrial age
      as the industrial revolution and so on

 ----------
 b. What is the 1st known instance of human trading?
 Ans: The first known instance of human trading happened in New Guinea around 17,000 BCE when locals exchanged obsidan, a black volcanic
      glass used to make hunting arrowheads for other needed goods

 b1. What timeframe did the 1st known trade take place?
 Ans: 17,000 BCE

 b2. Where did the 1st ever trade take place?
 Ans: New Guinea

 b3. What was the first ever thing to be traded?
 Ans: Obsidan (it's a black volcanic glass)

 b4. What is obsidan used for?
 Ans: Making arrowheads (used for hunting needed goods)

 ----------
 c1. _______________ began in 15,000 BCE?
 Ans: The first animal domestication

 c2. _______________ began in 10,000 BCE?
 Ans: The first plant domestication

 c3. What happened in 15,000 BCE and 10,000 BCE and 17,000 BCE?
 ----------

 d. ____________ and __________ brought about the desire towards agriculture and the advancement of human species?
 Ans: The first plant domestication and the first animal domestication

 e. As humans desire for agriculture and the advancement of humann species grew, they decided that?
 Ans: Instead of continually moving around as nomadic tribes, seeking new places to hunt and gather, they could stay in one place

 f. What are the nomadic tribes known for?
 Ans: Continually moving from one place to another

 g. Why did the nomadic tribes move from one place to another?
 Ans: Because they where looking for new places to hunt and gather

 f. What did agriculture allow the nomadic tribes do?
 Ans: Settle in one place

 h. ____________ allowed the formally known normadic tribe grow into a large stationary community and city?
 Ans: Agriculture

 i. As a result of the nomadic tribes settling down. What happened?
 Ans: It set the stage for the development and spread of human knowledge

 j. As the community grew one of the most important advances took place which is the advent of specialization. Discuss?
 Ans: Instead of each tribe hunting and gathering their food, different individuals from each tribe would become experts at certain tasks,
      such as farming, hunting, gathering, fishing, cooking, tool making, shelter-building or clothes making

 -----------
 k1. ___________ happened in 8,000 BCE?
 Ans: The last Ice Age

 k2. What happened in the last Ice Age?
 Ans: The poles melted(North and South), raising sea levels

 k3. What was the result of the last Ice Age? 
 Ans: The melted poles raised see levels and created a division between Siberia and North Ameriacas

 k4. The last Ice Age created a division between?
 Ans: Siberia and North Americas

 k5. Later on the European explorers reached the Americas in what Century?
 Ans: The 15th Century

 k6. What happened in the 15th century?
 Ans: The European explorers reached Americas
 ------------

 Spin-off:
 a. What happened in the 15,000 BCE, 10,000 BCE and 17,000 BCE? (5 marks)
 b. Discuss the first ever trade. when it happened, what was traded, what the traded item was used for? (10 marks)
 c. What happened during the last ice age
 d. What century was Americas discovered and by whom?
 e. What are the individual skills that different individuals from different tribes possed when the community grew more and more
 f. Which role did Agriculture play? (tip: concerning the normadic tribe)



 THE FIRST CITIES
 a. Around what time did the Central Asia farm horses?
 Ans: 4,000 BCE

 b. What advantage did it give to them?
 Ans: It improved there agriculture work and warfare

 c. Where were horses farmed in 4,000 BCE?
 Ans: Central Asia

 d. In 3,000 BCE. what happened?
 Ans: The first settlements and cities formed in Sumeria(Modern day Iraq)

 f. When did the first settlement and city form, and where?
 Ans: 3,000 BCE and in Sumeria (Modern day Iraq)

 g. Human civilization then began to spring up near where?
 Ans: Rivers

 h. List 5 civilizations that sprung up near rivers?
 Ans: Nile
      Tigris
      Euphrates
      Indus
      Yellow
      Yangtze

 k. In the first cities listed above, why was writing developed?
 Ans: To keep track of the crops
 
 l. When did the first armies develop and the first city governments form?
 Ans: When writing was developed to keep track of crops

 m. In order to keep track of crops, what did the first cities do?
 Ans: they developed writing

 All these activities necessitated the development of commerce and trade routes between cities

 n. What are the actual activities that necessitated the development of commerce and trade routes between cities?
 Ans: writing to keep track of crops and the development of the first armies

 o. _______, _________, and _________ enabled trade caravans between civilizaitons or cities to carry both goods and ideas?
 Ans: Donkeys, horses and camels

 p. ______ were built to carry trade over the sea?
 Ans: ships

 q. _________ happened in 2,000 BCE?
 Ans: Iron was discovered

 q1. _________ happened in 500BCE to 117 CE? 
 Ans: small cities turned into persian empires

 q2. _________ happened in 1800BCE and 600 CE?
 Ans: The worlds five major religion emerged

 r. How did the discovery of Iron help?
 Ans: It advanced warfare and the creation of empires

 s. The following where transferred from:
 i. Africa to Rome. Ans: salt
 ii. China to Europe Ans: pepper
 iii. Arab to Europe Ans: coffee and lemons

 
 THE EVOLUTION OF MONEY
 a. Discuss the Evolution of Money
 Ans: The early form of money was trade by barter(exchange of goods for goods and services for services). The problem with this was that
      both parties had to want what the other party had. This "Coincidence of wants" did not happen. Hence, the demands of growing business
      and trade gave rise to a money system.

 b. What were the early forms of money?
 Ans: Silver rings, seasheus, tobacco leaves, large round rocks, beads, etc. These were the early forms of money used around 2000 BC

 c. Discuss Feudalism?
 Ans: Feudalism emerged in Europe as a cultural system, where there were kings, lords, vassals and serf

 d. Discuss the origin of Banking?
 Ans: Banking was started by Ancient Mesopotamians, the idea that a business was an impersonal entity, with a seperate identity from its owner

 e. The Early Entrepreneurs were referred to as _______- and ___________?
 Ans: Merchants and explorers

 f. What did the Early Entrepreneurs do?
 Ans: The raised capital, take risks and stimulate economic growth



 ENTREPRENEURSHIP HISTORY IN AFRICA
 a. Discuss Entrepreneurship History in Africa?
 Ans: Entrepreneurship in Africa existed long before the coming of the whiteman. Entreprenuershipp took place in the mangrove forests and
      woodlands of Southern Nigeria. African people engaged in business there the African way. Trans-saharan trade

 b. Discuss Entrepreneurship in Nigeria?
 Ans: During the time when Nigeria fed off of the bulk of its own food and even exported several variety of agricultural goods such as:
      palm oil, cocoa, rubber and groundnuts. During this time Nigeria had entrepreneurs with entrepreneural mind set. They were innovative and
      developed business plans

 c. The Entrepreneurship embarkments of the Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba
 Ans: Hausa: the hausa had estate entrepreneurs who managed workers which were highly skilled and have excelled in being politically powerful
      Igbo: the igbos have entreprenuers specialize in buying and selling goods. they have also excelled in metalwork, weaving and 
            wood carving
      Yoruba: the yorubas have entreprenuers who are skilled artists, town dwellers who practice small-scale domestic agriculture

 d. Who were the first people to traverse the coast of West Africa?
 Ans: The portuguese were the first Europeans to traverse the coast of West Africa, they were attracted to Benin city in 1486. The chief
      established a trading contract with the Portuguese and initially sold some war captives to them

 


 THE CONCEPT AND DEFINITION OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP
 a. The term entrepreneur originated from the french word ______________?
 Ans: "entreprendre"

 b. What is the meaning of "entreprendre"?
 Ans: "one who undertakes" - that is, a "manager"

 c. What is the meaning of celui qui entreprend?
 Ans: Those who get things done

 d. What do the following Authors say about Entrepreneurship?
 Ans: Singal (2011): the process that involves all actions an entrepreneur undertakes to establish an enterprise in order to give reality to his ideas
      To Bob Reiss (2000): the recognition and pursuit of opportunity without regard to one's current resources
      Tende (2011): it is what an entrepreneur actually does with resources in managing an entreprise and taking risks
      Hisrich and Peters (2002): Process of creating something new with more value
      Emmanuel (2013): identifications of gaps and business opportunities in one's environment

 
 ---------------------
 a. Who is an Entrepreneur(by authors)?
 Ans: Schumpeter (1934) sees an entrepreneur as an individual who develops something new(an innovator).
      Peter Drucker sees an entrepreneur as "one who is involved in gathering and using resources to make use of opportunities to produce results"
      Singal (2011) sees an entrepreneur as a person who has the ability to see and evaluate business opportunities, in order to gather the 
                    necessarry resources to take advantage of them and take actions that will ensure success

 b. Who is an Entrepreneur?
 Ans: An entrepreneur is one who identifies a gap or need in his/her environment and brings together the needed resources in an innovative
      way to meet such need for a reward

 Characteristics of an Entrepreneur(by Singal(2011))
 c. All characteristics of an Entrepreneur
 1. Need to Achieve
 2. Perseverance
 3. Takes calculated risk
 4. Ability to find and explore opportunity
 5. Analytical Ability
 6. Using Feedback
 7. Facing Uncertainty
 8. Independence
 9. Flexibility
 10. Planning
 11. Interpersonal Skills 
 12. Motivator
 13. Stress Taking
 14. Positive Self-concept
 15. Orientation of Future















MODULE TWO



Theories of Entrepreneurship

The various school of entrepreneural thought include:
1. The Great Persons School of Thought (Garfield, 1986)
2. The Classical     School of Thought (Alois Schumpeter, 1934)
3. Leadership        School of Thought (Shapero, A., 1984)
4. Management Skills School of Thought (Peter Ferdinand Drucker, 1985)
5. Intrapreneurship  School of Thought (Gifford Pinchot, 1985)


2a. Discus The Great Person School of Thought
    This theory leans heavily on Max Weber who associates entreprenuership with charismatic leadership. This theory views entrepreneurs
    as specialist in communication, abilitiy to impose rules on others, has strong drive for success, independence, persistence.

 b. Discuss The Psychodynamic School of Thought
    This theory is the product of Freud's psychoanalytic theory of personality, which considers individuals as having instinctive
    drives. This Theory is based on 3 premises, 
    - that most behaviour is goal-directed and caused by a force within;
    - that much behavior originates from the unconscious mind; and 
    - that earlier childhood experiences are crucial in the developent of personality

 c. Discuss The Classical School of Thought
    According to Tende (2011), Entrepreneurship can also be conceived as "alertness" to profit opportunities. Availability of profit
    opportunities stimulate entrepreneurship. To Emmanuel (2013), linking the ideological factor with the study of entrepreneurship,
    a person's environment is the major motivating factor for entrepreneurship and that ideas, traits and motives are not enough

 d. Discuss The Management School of Thought
    This School of thought believes that entrepreneurs cannot only be born but can be made (taught). Accoding to Dandago and 
    Muhammad (2014), this school deals with technical aspect of management and believes that entrepreneurhip can be developed and
    trained. Entrepreneurship educators have evolved beyond the myth that entrepreneurs are born, not made

 e. Discuss The Leadership School of Thought
    Tende (2011) posits that the leadership theory of entrepreneurship is a non-technical side of the management theory, which 
    suggests that the entrepreneur needs to be skillful in getting others to "join the cause". An effective leader must be a people
    manager who is able to motivate, direct and lead people

 f. Discuss Intrapreneurship  School of Thought
    According toTende (2011), the this theory evolved as a response to lack of innovativeness and competitiveness within 
    organizations. Intrapreneurs want to act as entrepreneurs and implement their ideas without themselves becoming owners

 f1. There are two main schools of entrepreneurial thoughts. Name them?
 Ans: Entrepreneurial Traits and Managerial Skills School of thought


 CONTRIBUTION OF SOME THEORISTS TO ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT
 a. List all 5 contributors to the development of entrepreneurial theories?
 Ans: 1. Richard Cntillon
      2. Max Weber
      3. David McClelland
      4. Joseph Schumpeter
      5. Peter Drucker

 b. Richard Cantillon Contribution
 Ans: Richard cantillon is one of the earliest 18th century French Economists who first viewed entrepreneur as a specialist in 
      taking risk. He argued that all entrepreneurs operate their enterprises at a risk. That is buying at a certain price and 
      selling at an uncertain price. According to him there are three classes of people in the society:
      - the entrepreneur, the landowner and the workers
      He is regarded as the founder of the term "entrepreneur".

 c. Max Weber
 Ans: Max Weber was of the opinion that religious ideas can stimulate economic development which leads to the development of the
      entrepreneurial spirit. Although his view is sociological, he maintained that certain teachings and attitudes prevalent
      in the society were a crucial prescription for economic growth

 d. Joseph A. Schumpeter
 Ans: Schumpeter refers to the entrepreneur as an innovator who revolutionizes pattern of production, develops untried(new) 
      technology, improves old products and alters the previous ones.

 e. Davide McClelland
 Ans: McClelland is one of the propounders of the Psychological theory of entrepreneurship. He argued that the need for achievement
      by some individuals is the greatest motivation for entrepreneurship

 f. Peter Drucker
 Ans: Peter Drucker is of the opinion that entrepreneurship is all about creating a new thing with added value which requires a 
      great deal of creativity and innovation.


 0. List all 5 contributors to the theory of entrepreneurship? 
 i. Who first viewed entrepreneurship as a specialist in taking risk, and in what century, and where is he/she from?
 ii. Who is regarded as the founder of the term "entrepreneur"?
 iii. Who argued that religious ideas can stimulate economic developement?
 iv. Who argued that the greatest motivation of entrepreneurship is the need for achievement?
 v. Who refers to entrepreneurs as an innovator?
 vi. What is Peter Druckers opinion on entrepreneurship?











MODULE THREE


IDEATION: BUSINESS IDEA


Preamble
3a. Who are Entrepreneurs?
 Ans: Entrepreneurs are people who have the ability to see and evaluate business opportunities to gather the necessary resources to
      take advantage of them; and initiate appropriate actions to ensure success.

 b. What is Idea?
 Ans: Idea is a plan formed by thinking

 c. What are Business Ideas?
 Ans: This are thoughts that when implemented can lead to income generalization

 d. List all eleven(11) Techniques and Skills for generating Business Idea?
 Ans: 1. Your skills, tallent, passion
      2. Keeping up with current events
      3. Invent a new product or service
      4. Add value to an already existing product
      5. Franchising
      6. Mass Media
      7. Exhibitions, Expos and Trade shows
      8. Industrial Surveys
      9. Listen to customers complaints
      10. Brainstorming
      11. Observations

 e. Write a line or more on all the techniques for generating business ideas above?











MODULE FOUR


NEW VENTURE CREATION


4a. What is Feasibility study?
 Ans: Feasibility study is an evaluation or analysis of the potential impact of a proposed project

 b. Feasibility study is divided into four(4) parts. Name and briefly explain them?
 Ans: 1. Market Environment: is there potential for your product or service to make you money
      2. Technical and Operational requirements: what equipments and human resources (workers) will the buisness need
      3. Financial Projection: what are the expenses and incomes of the business. How long will it take to break even(or become profitable)
      4. Economic Contribution: your buisness contribution to the community, society or economy

 c. Discuss how to write Business Plan?
 Ans: The Feasibility Report is the foundation for writing a business plan. It is difficult to write a Business plan without it. 
      The business plan is like the icing on the cake and focuses on how the events stated in teh feasibility report can be carried out in a given timeframe

 d. List all the components that make up a Business Plan?
 Ans: i.    Executive summary
      ii.   Company description
      iii.  Objective statement or business goals
      iv.   Business and management structure
      v.    Products and Services
      vi.   Marketing and sales plan
      vii.  Business financial analysis
      viii. Financial Projections
      ix.   Appendix


 Participation in the Nigerian Business Environment: Regulatory and Legal Framework
 -----------
 e. People who run buisnesses without registering, the law allows a window period of ________ after which you are required to register?
 Ans: 28days

 f. Full or partial ownership of business by a foreign investor is permitted now in Nigeria. why is this?
 Ans: Because the Nigerian government is trying to boast the Nigerian economy

 g. List all 4 laws governing Corporate Business operation in Nigeria
 Ans: - The Companies and Allied Matters Act, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN) 2004
      - The National Office of Technology Acquisition and Promotion Act (NOTAP aCT)
      - The Companies Income (Amendment) Tax Act 2007
      - Capital Gains Tax Act
 
 h. List all 7 Regulatory Bodies
 Ans: 1. Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)
      2. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
      3. National Agency for Food Drug and Cosmetics (NAFDAC)
      4. Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC)
      5. National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP)
      6. Standards Organization of Nigeria (SON)
      7. Consumer Protection Council (CPC)

 i. What is the role of CAC?
 Ans: The Corporate Affairs Commission(CAC) is the Agency of Government charged with regulation and supervision of the formation, 
      incorporation, registration and management of Companies, Business Names and Incorporated Trustees

 j. When was the CAC established?
 Ans: CAC was established under the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA), 1990

 k. What is the meaning of CAC?

 l. List 6 services offered by the CAC?
 Ans: 1. Regulation and supervision of the formation, incorporation, registration and management of Companies, Business Names and 
         Incorporated Trustees
      2. Registration of changes, amendments and alterations in particulars of Companies, Business Names and Incorporated Trustees
      3. Repository for statutory records of Companies, Business Names and Incorporated Trustees.
      4. Searches
      5. Issuance of certified true copies of certificates
      6. Enforcement of compliance of Companies, Business Names and Incorporated Trustees

 m. List all forms of Business Investment in Nigeria?
 Ans: 1. Sole proprietorship
      2. Partnership business
      3. Company
      4. Free Trade Zones (FTZ)

 n. Discuss all forms of Business Investment in Nigeria?
 Ans: 
 {
 1. Sole Proprietorship: This is a kind of business owned exclusively by one individual, in this form of business platform; 
    there is no legal distinction between the owner and the business. The owner is entitled to all profits and responsible for all business debt, loses and liability.

    Advantages:
    1. The process of registration is generally uncomplicated
    2. It gives the entrepreneur the opportunity to own the name of the business as an intellectual property
    3. provides competitive leverage (because he now operates within a legal framework)
    4. Are the sole owners of the business (You don't split gains with anyperson)

    Disadvantages:
    1. Responsible for all the debts and losses
    2. Responsible for all business activities conducted therefore susceptible to wear out
    3. Raising capital is difficult
    4. In charge of every aspect of business including product and service development, delivery, marketing, accounting and customer care
    5. Success is closely tied to the owner

 2. Partnership Business: The partnership law of each state provides direction for the operation of partnership business. The draft partnership law was
    prepared by the Law Reform Commission in 1990. The operation of this form of business is still dictated by each state of the federation
      
 ------------------ **questions could be asked on this
 Partnership Business
 i. What are the two(2) forms of Partnership?
 Ans: General Partnership
      Limited Partnership

 ii. what are the three(3) essential elements to General Partnership?
 Ans: 1. Joint ownership of the Business
      2. Sharing of profits and losses, and
      3. Equal right in managing the business

 iii. what happens in the Limited Partnership?
 Ans: In a limited partnership there is one general partner and then one or more limited partners. The general partner is responsible for manageing
      the business while the limited partner contributes only assets

 ------------------

 3. Registered Company: The Companies and Allied Matters Act(CAMA) provide entrepreneurs with the opportunity to register there companies in three broad category. which are
    1. A company limited by shares
    2. A company limited by guarantee
    3. An unlimited company

   spin-off. What are the 3 broad categories that the CAMA allow entrepreneurs to register their companies

 4. Free Trade Zones(FTZ): The Free Trade Zones are designed to attract foreign direct investment(FDI)

 }


 o. What is a Private Company?
 Ans: A private company is a company which has stated in its memorandum and articles of association to be a private company. It must by its article
      restrict the transfer of shares

 p. How many members are allowed to be in a Private Company?
 Ans: It must have nothing less than 2 members and nothing more than 50 members

 q. What is a Public Company?
 Ans: Any company that is not a private company

 r. What are the different types of Companys that are identified under the Act?
 Ans: 1. Public Company Limited by shares
      2. Private Company Limited by shares
      3. Public Company Limited by guarantee
      4. Private Company Limited by guarantee
      5. Public Unlimited Company
      6. Private Unlimited Company

 s. List just 6 requirements for the registration of a Company?
 Ans: 1. Evidence of approval of name
      2. Duly completed set of incorporation forms
      3. Duly stamped Memorandum and Articles of Association
      4. Evidence of consent letter (where applicable)
      5. Proficiency certificate (where applicable)
      6. Residence permit in case of resident foreigners

 t. List all five(5) persons that are not allowed to form a company
 Ans: 1. A person who is less than 18 years of age
      2. A person who is of unsound mind
      3. An undercharged bankrupt
      4. A person disqualified under S.254 of the Act from being a director of a company (i.e fraudulent persons)
      5. A corporate body in liquidation

 Choice of Name
 a. What is the first step to registering a company?
 Ans: Once two or more persons have agreed to form a company, the first step for them is to choose a name for the company. Normally two(2) names 
      are chosen. The preferred name and the alternative name. The name may be the individuals' personal names or a combination of names of the 
      promoters or any name of there choice.

 b. No company shall be registered by a name such as. List 5?
 Ans: i. An already existing or identical name to an existing company
      ii. Contains the word "chambers of commerce" unless it is a company limited by guarantee
      iii. Capable of misleading
      iv. Offensive, undesirable or unsupported by public policy
      v. Voilates existing trademark or business name

 c. List 5 Restricted Names?
 Ans: 1. Federal,
         National, 
         Regional or State Government
      2. Municipal or Chartered
      3. Co-operative or Building Society
      4. Group or Holding
      5. Any word suggesting temporary business arrangement

 d. List 6 free trade zones?
 Ans: 1. Calabar Free Zone
      2. kANO Free Zone
      3. Lekki Free Zone
      4. Tinapa Free Zone
      5. Oloka Free Zone
      6. Onne Oil and Gas Export Free Zone

 e. State all compliance requirements for business operation
 Ans: 1. Companies and Allied Matter Act
      2. The Company and Income Tax Act
      3. Capital Gains Tax
      4. Value-Added Tax Act
      5. Labour Law
      6. Trade Disputes
      7. Intellectual Property (IP) Protection

 f. Discuss all the compliance requirements for business operation
 Ans: 
 {
    1. Companies and Allied Matter Act(CAMA): The submission of Annual report for both private and public company is mandatory and compulsory.
       This is to be submitted after the first 12 months of operation. There are provisions for 3 months extension after the end of your 12 months period.
       Failure to file annual returns attracts penalty. If a business fails to file annual returns for over 3 consecutive years the company is removed 
       from the register of companies
       
       spin-off. what is annual report?
       Ans: Annual report is basically sending a document of all the activities of the company in the past 12 months
    
     2. The Company and Income Tax Act: This Act allows companies to be taxed each year of assessment at a specific rate on the companies profits. 
        Companies Income Tax is chargeable at a rate of 30% of a company's profits. But Newly registered companies on the other hand have up to 18 months 
        after registration, no later than 6 months after the end of the first accounting period, to file tax returns. The rate of withholding taxes to be deducted at sources are
        between 5% and 10%

     3. Capital Gains Tax: The capital Gains Tax Act regulates capital gains tax in Nigeria. Capital Gain tax is chargeble on all forms of property, 
        whether in Nigeria or outside Nigeria. The rate of capital gains tax is 10%. But capital gains tax is not chargeable on gains gotten from acquiring the shares of a 
        company that increases
       
        spin-off. What is Capital Gain: The amount by which the selling price of an asset exceeds the purchase price; the gain realized when the asset is sold is the capital gain
        e.g i bought a nike shoe 40k and sold it 50k. my capital gain here is 10k

     ----------------- question might be asked
     Capital Gains Tax
     i. List some organizations that are exempted from paying capital gains tax
     Ans: - Ecclesiastical(means associated with a church), charitable or educational institutions;
          - Any registered friendly society;
          - Any cooperative society under the cooperative societies law of any state;
          - Any trade union registered under the Trade Unions Act; and 
          - Local government councils
     ------------------

     4. Value-Added Tax Act: This Act requires companies to pay taxes on goods and services that adds value, goods and services which are consumed by 
        individuals, corporate organizations and others. Value added tax is charged at 5% for all except a select few

     5. Labour Law: This Act governs the labour sector in Nigeria. This act is limited to workers only - not administrators, executives or professionals, 
        but instead to junior level workers performing manual labour or clerical duties (religious duties)  

     6. Trade Disputes: This Act is in charge of regulating the settlement of trade disputes and makes it unlawful for any person to commence an action that brings
        about a trade dispute.

     7. Intellectual Property: The Nigeria legal system affords protection to Intellectual Property rights in the following categories
        1. Copyright
        2. Trademark and
        3. Patent
       
        spin-off. What is Intellectural Property: An intangible property that is the result of creativity

 }

 ------------------
 Intellectual Property
 
 g. Protection of Intellectual Property come in 3 categories. Name them?
 Ans: copyright, trademark, patent

 g1. Define Copyright?
 Ans: A copyright is a legal right that grants the creator of an original work exclusive right to its use and distribution, usually for a limited
      time(before you are demanded to renew the copyright).

 g2. Who is the body charged with the enforcement and protection of copyright in Nigeria?
 Ans: Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC)

 g3. Can a person obtain the right by transfer or other legal means and become the owner of the copyright. Yes or No?

 g4. List all the scope of copyright?
 Ans: 1. Literary works
      2. Musical works
      3. Artistic works
      4. Cinematograph works
      5. Sound recording and
      6. Broadcasts

 g5. You can't have copyright protection over something in your head which has not been expressed. It has to be expressed in either e.g writing, a painting, a musical recording etc.
     true or false?

 g6. How can one register a copyright?
 Ans: By submitting a complete registration form and two(2) copies of the work and evidence of payment of the prescribed fee. it can be done online or offline


 ------------------
 Trademark

 h. Define Trademark?
 Ans: A trademark is a word, phrase, symbol or design, or a combination of words, phrases, symbols or designs, that identifies and distinguishes the
      source of the goods of one party from those of others.
 
 h1. Which legislation, governs the registration of trademarks?
 Ans: The Trade Marks Act

 h2. Which government agencies are in charge of the registration?
 Ans: Trademarks
      Patents and Designs Registry
      Commercial Law Department
      Federal Ministry of Industry
      Trade and Investment

 h3. What are some items eligible for trademark. Nothing less than 5?
 Ans: Device, brand, heading, label, ticket, name, signature, word, letter, numeral, or any combination thereof;

 h4. Eligibility for Trademark Registration. it must contain atleast one of the below. List all 4?
 Ans: 1. The name of a company, individual, or firm, represented in a special or particular manner;
      2. The signature of the applicant for registration or some predecessor in his business
      3. An invented word or invented words;
      4. Any other distinctive mark

 h5. What is the importance of registering a Trademark
 Ans: In order to have exclusive use of your trademark, it is important u register it. Unlike copyright, with trademark you don't have
      automatic protection given to the owner. Not registering a trademark would mean someone else could use it without permission from you

 h6. What are the process of registering a Trademark?
 Ans: 1. Availability Search: You conduct a search to see if there are registered marks that are similar to yours
      2. Trademark Application: If there is no similar mark, you may apply for registration. if your mark is deemed registerable the 
         registry issues a Letter of Acceptance as an approval. After that the mark is advertised in the Trademarks journal published by
         a Trademarks Office
      3. Application for Certificate: Once the proposed mark has been advertised, an interested party may oppose the registration within
         2 months of the advertised journal. If the mark is not opposed within 2 months you may then apply to the Registrar for a 
         Trademark Certificate

 h7. How long are trademarks valid?
 Ans: for 7 years initially and then further renewable in 14 year periods


 ------------------
 Patent
 j. What is a Patent?
 Ans: A patent is an exclusive right granted for an invention, which is a product or a process that provides a new way
      of doing something, or offers a new technical solution to a problem

 j1. The legislation that governs the grant of patents is the ________________?
 Ans: Patents and Designs Act

 j2. List the 5 government agencies that grants patents?
 Ans: 1. Trademarks,
      2. Patents and Designs Registry,
      3. Commercial Law Department,
      4. Federal Ministry Of Industry,
      5. Trade And Investment

 j3. Eligibility for Patent Registration. List all four(4)?
 Ans: 1. Must be new
      2. Must have an inventive step that is not obvious to anyone
      3. Must be capable of being made and used
      4. Must not be against public policy or morality

 j4. Why is it important to Register a Patent?
 Ans: In order to be able to exclusively commercially exploit an invention. The right of a patent is vested int he first person to 
      file and register the patent regardless of whether he or she is the true inventor

 Process for registering a patent
 j5. How do you register a Patent?
 Ans: 1. A request for a petent signed by the applicant or his agent containing applicants full name and address
      2. A specification, including a claim or claims in duplicate; plans and drawings if any in duplicate
      3. A declaration signed by the true inventor requesting that he is mentioned
      4. A signed authorization of attorney or agent if made by one
      5. An address for service in Nigeria if the applicant's address is outside Nigeria
      6. Once granted, a patent is valid for 20 years






FINANCING

 Business documentation and Entrepreneurial Financing
 a. What is Financing?
 Ans: Financing is the act of providing funds for business activities, making purchases or investing

 b. What is Entrepreneurial Financing?
 Ans: Entrepreneurial Finance is the study of value and resource allocation, applied to new ventures

 c. List 5 financial limitations in Entrepreneurship
 Ans: 1. Uncrertainty about the future
      2. Information Gaps
      3. Soft Assets
      4. Volatility of current market conditions

 d. List all Sources of Entrepreneurial Financing
 Ans: 1. Personal Loan (friends and family members)
      2. Bartering (exchanging goods or services for cash)
      3. Smart leases (closely related to the above)
      4. Forming Partnerships
      5. Bank Loans
      6. Retirement Funds
      7. Financial Bootstrapping (find ways to grow without external financing. funding the company from your savings)
      8. External Financing (financing from external investors due to owners not having enough capital to grow)
      9. Angel Equity or Business Angels (private investor that invest his wealth and time in innovative startups)
      10. Venture Capital (a financial investor participates in the capital of a new company in exchange for cash or strategic advice)
      11. Buyouts (forms of corporate finance used to change ownership)
          - Leveraged Buyout
          - Management Buyout
          - Buy and Built
          - Recaps
          - Secondary Buyout
          - Public-to-Private

      12. Small Business Administration Loan
      13. Personal Credit Card
      14. Incubators
      15. Personal Bank Loan
      16. Committing to a major customer
      and soo much more...





