EXAM PREP 

LECTURE IV

Data Link Layer
1a. Discuss the data link layer?
 Ans: The data link layer is the 2nd layer of the OSI model
      It carries out complicated and complex functionalities and aids data communication
      It abstracts underlying hardware and presents itself as a medium to communicate with

 b. The data link layer functions between two connected devices, connected in which ________ or __________ for?
 Ans: Point to Point
      Broadcast

 c. How does the data link layer aid communication?
 Ans: it converts the data stream into signals and sends them over the underlying hardware/media

 d. How does the reciever handle data in the form of electrical signal?
 Ans: The reciever recieves the signals and organizes them into a recognizable format and sends it to the upper layer

 e. Data link layer has two(2) sub layers. name them?
 Ans: logical link control: handles protocols, flow control, error control
      media access control: handles the actual media control
 
 f. List all(6) things task that the data link layer performs for the upper layer?
 Ans: Framing
      Addressing
      Synchronisation
      flow control
      error control
      multi-access

 g. Discuss the following tasks:
 - Framing and what it consists of?
 Ans: Data link layer takes packets from the network layer and encapsulates them into frames
      it sends the frame bit by bit over the underlying hardware
      On the recieving end the data link layer takes the signals and organizes it back int frames and sends it to the upper layers
      These frames are also known as Ethernet frames
   
      it consists of:
      - header: carries the source and destination MAC addresses and the type of frame in transit
      - data: the data in the frame carries the layer 3 data packet
      - trailer: necessary for error detection and correction

 - Addressing and Mac Address
 Ans: Data link layer uses layer 2 hardware addressing mechanism
      Hardware address is assumed to be unique and is encoded on the network adapter during manifacture
      These address is known as MAC Address
      It contains 48 bits consisting of 12 hexadecimal characters with 6 groupings seperated by a hyphen e.g
      4d-9c-b8-ef-a3-46

 - Synchronisation
 Ans: The data link layer makes sure that both devices synchronize in order for data transfer to take place

 - Error Control
 Ans: Sometimes signals are lost during transmission as bits are flipped, the data link layer provides a reporting mechanism to the sender

 - Flow control
 Ans: Devices on the same link may have different speed and capacity
      The flow control enables two devices on a link to exchange data in same speed
 
 - Multi-Access
 Ans: When multiple hosts on a link try to transmit data there is a high probability that there is going to be collision
      The data link layer provides a mechanism CSMA/CD that helps prevent this collisions from taking place


 Error Correction and Detection
 g. Discuss Error correction and detection?
 Ans: The upper layer works with a generalized view of the network unaware of the activities of the underlying hardware
      The upper layer always expects error free transmission to take place between the systems
      Some applications won't function appropriately if sent erroroneous data
      Applications such as videos and voice may not be heavily affected by errorneous data

 h. The upper layers work on a generalized view of the network architecture therefor _________________________?
 Ans: is unaware of the activities of the hardware

 i. The upper layers expect what kind of transmission between systems?
 Ans: Error free

 Error Detection (has 2 methods)
 j. What are the types of error?
 Ans: single bit error
      multiple bit error
      burst error

 k. Errors in the recieved frames are detected using anyone of two(2) methods. Name them?
 Ans: Parity Check
      Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC)

 l. Extra bits are sent with the actual data. why is that?
 Ans: In both cases few extra bits are sent with the actual data to confirm that bits sent is the same as bits recieved
      If the counter check fails at the other end then the bits sent is corrupted

 m. Briefly discuss Parity Checks?
 Ans: In parity check an extra bit is added to the end of the original bits to make number of 1s even(for even parity) or odd(for odd parity)

 n. How is data known to be uncorrupted for even and odd parity?
 Ans: When the counter on the other end counts the 1s and discovers it to be even when odd parity is used. in such a case the frame is erroneous

 o. Briefly discuss Cyclic Redundancy Checks?
 Ans: The sender performs a division operation on the bits to be sent and calculates the remainder attaching the end of the bits
      Actual bits and the remainder is called a codeword
      The sender sends the bits as codeword

 p. Difference between Parity Check and Cyclic Redundancy Check(CRC)?
 Ans: In parity check, a counter counts the number of 1s and decides whether to add 1 for even parity or 0 for odd parity and sends the bits to the reciever as the counter on the reciever
      counts the number of 1s, if even and even parity was used then the data is uncorrupted but if even and odd parity was used then the data is corrupted

 Error Correction (has 2 methods)
 q. In digital format, what are the two(2) methods errors can be corrected?
 Ans: Forward error correction
      Backward error correction

 r. Discuss Both methods of error correction in digital format?
 Ans: When the reciever detects error with sent frame it executes an error-correction code to auto-recover the missing frame or correct the error

 Flow Control(has 2 mechanisms)
 a. Discuss Flow Control?
 Ans: Devices on a link may have different speed and capacity, in order for both devices to communicate the flow mechanism makes sure that both devices use the same speed

 b. State the two(2) kinds of mechanism that can be deployed to control flow?
 Ans: stop and wait
      sliding window
 
 - Mechanisms(stop-and-wait, sliding window)
 c. Discuss the Stop and Wait mechanism and draw a diagram of this?
 Ans: In the stop and wait mechanism a data frame is sent at a time and waits for ACK from the reciever before sending the next data frame.

 d. State two advantages and disadvantages?
 Ans: Advantages
      It ensures accuracy
      It can be used for noisy channels

      Disadvantages
      It is very slow
      Hardware resources are idle most of the time

 e. Discuss the Sliding Window mechanism?
 Ans: In the sliding window mechanism, both the sender and the reciever agree on a number of data frame to be sent and recieved after which an acknowledgement is sent

 Error Control(has 4 requirements)
 a. Discuss Error Control?
 Ans: when the sender sends data frames to the reciever sometimes data frames are lost in transit or corrupted. 
      In some cases the user does not recieve the correct data frames and the sender does not know
      Both sender an reciever are built with some protocols that helps the layer 2 know when the sent data is corrupted

 b. List all four(4) defined requirements for error control mechanism?
 Ans: Error detection: the sender or reciever using protocols must determin if there is an error in transit
      Positive ACK: when the reciever recieves correct frame, it should Acknowledge it
      Negative ACK: when the reciever recieves incorrect frame, it must send a NACK to the sender so the sender retransmits the frame
      Retransmission: Corrupted data should be retransmitted by the sender once the sender recieves a NACK on the corrupted data frame or 
                      if the set timer period for acknowledgement is exhausted the sender should automatically resend the data frames
      
 c. There are three(3) techniques used by the data link layer to control the errors by Automatic Repeat Requests(ARQ). List all?
 Ans: Stop and wait ARQ
      Go-Back-N ARQ
      Selective Repeat ARQ

 d. Discuss the following with diagrams: stop and wait ARQ, Go-Back-N ARQ, Selective Repeat ARQ?
 Ans: Stop and wait ARQ: When the sender sends a data frame it sets off a timeout counter during which it expects an Positive or Negative acknowledgement
      in order to decide whether to send the next frame or retransmit the previous one. if no acknowledgment is returned during the countdown then the sender 
      assumes that the fames or acknowledgment have been lost in transit and retransmits

      Go-Back-N ARQ: both frames maintain a window. The sending-window size enables the sender to send multiple data without acknowledgement and the recieving-window 
      enables the reciever recieve multiple frames and then acknowledge them

      Selective Repeat ARQ: In the Selective Repeat the reciever keeps track of the sequence number and buffers the frames in the memory, sends NACK for only missing frames
      

 Data Link Layer Protocols?
 e. There are two(2) important protocols in data link layer. Name them?
 Ans: 

 f. Discuss the ARP and draw an ARP packet diagram?
 Ans: In order for data transmission to occur in the data link layer the source must be aware of the MAC address of the destination

 g. Describe what each layer does in the ARP packet diagram?
 Ans: slide 38

 h. Discuss ARP Cache?
 Ans: ARP cache is a table of association for host destination ip addresses and the associating mac addresses