1a. What is Computer Graphics?
ans: Computer Graphics is any sketch, drawing, special artwork or other 
     materials that pictorially depict an object or process or otherwise 
     convey information, as a supplement to or instead of written 
     description

 b. What is a Pixel?
 ans: A pixel is the smallest addressable screen element

    i. How are pixels controlled?
    ans: By setting the intensity and color of the pixel

 c. List 5 advantages of Computer graphics
 ans: 1. It provides tools for producing pictures not only of concrete  
         real-world object but also of abstract, synthetic object such as 
         mathematical surfaces in 4D and of data that have no inherent 
         geometry such as Survey results
      2. It has the ability to show moving pictures and thought it possible 
         to produce animation with computer graphics. 
      3. With it, users can control animation speed, portion of the view 
         and goniometric relationship of the object in the scene to one 
         another and the amount of detail shown.
      4. It provides tools called motion dynamics. Which allows us to move 
         objects, tumble them with respect to stationary observer, or make objects stationary while the viewer moves around them.
      5. It provides a facility called update dynamics. Which allows us 
         change the shape, color and other properties of the objects.
      6. With the recent development of digital signal processing and audio 
         synthesis chip the interactive graphics can now provide audio 
         feedback along with the graphical feedback to make the simulated 
         environment even more realistic

 d. List at least 5 fields where Computer Graphics is used?
 ans: - Business
      - Engineering
      - Medicine
      - Government
      - Education
      - Training
      - Advertising research
      - Art and entertainment
      - Communication in general

 e. List 4 major application areas for Computer Graphics
 ans: - Computer Aided Design/Drafting (CAD/CADD)
      - Presentation Graphics
      - Entertainment
      - Computer-Aided Learning

 f. Explain 3 of the 4 major application areas for Computer Graphics?
 ans: - Computer Aided Design/Drafting (CAD/CADD)
          CAD/CADD applications are used in design process, particularly 
          for engineering applications such as building, structural, 
          mechanical and industrial design 

          - CAD apps are used in designing of manufacturing processes, 
            including that of automobiles, aircraft, ships, spacecrafts and 
            more.

          - In some CAD applications, objects are first displayed in a 
            wireframe outline, which shows the overall shape and the internal 
            features of the objects. 
            
          - Wireframe display also allows designers to quickly see the effect 
            of interactive adjustment to design shapes.
          
          - Current CAD software packages range from 2D vector based drafting 
            systems to 3D solid and surface modellers. 

          - Modern CAD applications allow 
            - rotation in 3D 
            - viewing of designed objects from a desired angle, 
            - viewing of designed objects from the inside looking out. 
            
          - Some CAD softwares are capable of dynamic mathematical modelling 
            in which case it may be marketed as CADD (Computer Aided Design 
            and Drafting)

      - Presentation Graphics
         Presentation refers to the act of presenting important points of a 
         topic to: 
          a. the audience for a lecture, 
          b. potential customers for a new product or service.

         - The presentation of data in a condensed, visual, convenient form 
           has always been an aid to understanding and promoting any idea. 
         
         - Computer graphics has made presentations an art by making visuals 
           more appealingly colorful through incorporating animations, sound effects, videos in presentations.

         - Graphics becomes a vital part of presenting ideas and promoting 
           organizations even in non business endeavors such as at academic 
           seminars or for proposing a new construction and so on. 

      - Entertainment
         - Computer graphics methods are used in making music, videos games, 
           cartoon, movies, television shows, etc. 
           
         - Sometimes the graphic scenes are displayed by themselves and 
           sometimes graphic objects are combined with the actors in live 
           scenes 

         - Several developers have used graphics, sound and animation of 
           multimedia to create variety of games (and they make good money 
           doing so).

      - Computer-Aided Learning
         - Computer graphics tools like MS Power Point are used heavily in 
           teaching, seminars and conference presentations on almost every 
           subject at every level.
         - Computer generated models of physical, financial, and economic 
           systems are used as educational aids.  




2a. Computer Graphics can be classified into 2 main categories, name them?
ans: - Passive (off-line) computer graphics
     - interactive computer graphics

    I. Explain both categories?
    ans: 1. Passive (off-line) computer graphics: The most common example 
            of passive computer graphics is a static website, where users 
            have no control over the contents on the monitor.
    
         2. Interactive computer graphics: This is called interactive 
            graphics. Displays are controlled by mouse, trackball, joystick 
            etc. Video Games, dynamic websites, special effects in movies 
            and cartoons. They all make use of interactive computer 
            graphics.

 b. What are the 3 components that make up an Interactive computer graphics?
 ans: - Digital Memory Buffer
      - Monitor
      - Display controller

      By using these components we are able to see the output on the screen 
      in the form of pixels

 c. Explain the Digital Memory Buffer?
 ans: This is a place where images and pictures are stored as an array 
      (matrix of 0 & 1, 0 represents darkness and 1 represents image or 
      picture). 

      Frame buffer is the video RAM (V-RAM) that is used to hold or map the 
      images displayed on the screen

      Memory in MB = ( X-resolution x Y-resolution x Bits per pixel )        
                     ------------------------------------------------
                                   8 x 1024 x 1024

 d. Explain Monitor?
 ans: Monitor helps us to view the display and they make use of CRT (Cathode 
      ray Tube) technology 

 e. Explain Display controller
 ans: - It is an interface between Memory Buffer and Monitor. 
      - Its job is to pass the contents of frame buffer to the monitor. 
      - The image must be passed repeatedly to the monitor to maintain a 
        steady picture on the screen. 
      - The display controller reads each successive byte of data from FB 
        Memory and converts 0's and 1's into corresponding video signals. 
      - This signal is then feed to the monitor to produce a black and white 
        picture on screen. 
      - In today's term, display controllers are recognized as display cards & 
        one of our choices can be VGA card with a resolution of 640x480.



3a. What is Computer Vision?
ans: Computer vision is the field of computer science that focuses on 
     creating digital systems that can process, analyze, and make sense 
     of visual data (images or videos) in the same way that humans do. 

 b. What is the concept of computer vision?
 ans: The concept of computer vision is based on teaching computers to 
      process an image at a pixel level and understand it

 c. What are the Primary goals of Computer Vision?
 ans: 1. Detection, segmentation, location and recognition of certain 
         objects in an image.
      2. Tracking an object through image sequence.
      3. Mapping a scene to a 3D model of the scene.

      These goals are achieved by means of pattern recognition, statistical 
      learning, image processing, graph theory and other related fields. 
      Cognitive computer vision is strongly related to cognitive psychology 
      and biological computation.

 d. List 5 fields that make use of Computer Vision
 ans: - Medicine
      - Military
      - Industry
      - Security
      - Quality Inspection
      - Robotics and 
      - many other fields

 e. What is Image Processing?
 ans: Image processing is a method of processing that performs some 
      operations on an image, in order to get an enhanced image or to 
      extract some useful information from it.

      It is a type of signal processing in which input is an image and 
      output may be image or characteristics/features associated with that 
      image. Nowadays, image processing is among rapidly growing 
      technologies. It forms core research area within engineering and 
      computer science disciplines too.

 f. List the 3 steps to Image Processing?
 ans: 1. Importing the image via image acquisition tools;
      2. Analyzing and manipulating the image;
      3. Output in which result can be altered image or report that is 
         based on image analysis



4a. What is a Keyboard?
ans: A computer keyboard is an input device used to enter characters and 
     functions into the computer system by pressing buttons, or keys.

     It is the primary device used to enter text. It contains keys for 
     individual letters, numbers and special characters, as well as keys 
     for specific functions, it is connected to a computer system using a 
     cable or a wireless connection.

 b. List the 5 parts of a keyboard and state how many keys are on a keyboard
 ans: 1. The Alphanumeric Keys
      2. The numeric keypad
      3. Function keys
      4. Modifier keys
      5. Cursor movement keys

 c. Explain how the Computer accepts Inputs from keyboard?
 ans: When we press a key, a tiny chip in the keyboard called keyboard 
      controller notes that a key has been pressed. The keyboard 
      controller places a code (Key Scan) in the buffer of the keyboard to 
      indicate which key was pressed (Keyboard buffer is a temporary 
      memory of the keyboard controller). 
      
      The keyboard controller sends a signal to the system software 
      notifying that something happened at the keyboard.

      When the system receives the signal it determines the appropriate 
      response. When a keystroke has occurred, the system reads the memory 
      location in the keyboard buffer that contains the code of the key 
      which was pressed. The system software then passes that code to the 
      CPU.

   i. Draw a diagram of how it works?
   ans: (SLIDE page 27)



5a. What is the Computer Mouse?
ans: A computer mouse is a handheld hardware input device that controls a 
     cursor in a GUI (graphical user interface) for pointing, moving and 
     selecting text, icons, files, and folders on your computer.

     In addition to these functions, a mouse can also be used to 
     drag-and-drop objects and give you access to the right-click menu

 b. What are the 2 types of mouse?
 ans: - Mechanical and 
      - Optical mouse

 c. List 2 other pointing devices
 ans: Touchpad and 
      Joystick

 d. What is a Touch Screen?
 ans: A touch screen is a display device that allows the user to interact 
      with a computer using their finger or stylus

      They're a useful alternative to a mouse or keyboard for navigating a 
      GUI (graphical user interface). Touch screens are used on a variety 
      of devices, such as a computer and laptop displays, smartphones, 
      tablets, cash registers, and information kiosks.

    i. Draw a diagram of the Infrared Touch Panel
    ans: (SLIDE page 32)



6a. What is a Graphics Tablet?
ans: A graphics tablet ( digitizer, digital graphic tablet, pen tablet, or 
     digital art board) is an input device that enables a user to hand-draw 
     images, animations and graphics, with a special pen-like stylus, 
     similar to the way a person draws images with a pencil and paper.

     These tablets may also be used to capture data or handwritten 
     signatures. It can also be used to trace an image from a piece of 
     paper that is taped or otherwise secured to the tablet surface. 
     Capturing data in this way, by tracing or entering the corners of 
     linear polylines or shapes, is called digitizing.

 b. What is a Printer?
 ans: A printer is a device that accepts text and graphic output from a 
      computer and transfers the information to paper, usually to 
      standard-size, 8.5" by 11" sheets of paper. 

      Printers vary in size, speed, sophistication and cost. In general, 
      more expensive printers are used for more frequent printing or 
      high-resolution color printing.

      The major printer technologies available. These technology can be 
      broken down into two main categories(Impact and Non-impact)

      i. Wha tis the most important part of a PC?
      ans: The Display system




7a. List 4 types of display systems you know?
ans: 1. Random Scan display
     2. Raster Scan display
     3. Direct View storage tube
     4. Flat Panel display 

 b. Display Systems have 3 parts. Name all 3 and briefly explain?
 ans: 1. Display Adapter: Creates or holds the color information
      2. Monitor: Display the information
      3. Cable: Carries the information between the display adapter and 
         monitor

  

8a. Discuss how the Random Scan Display works?
 ans: In Random-Scan Display electron beam is directed only to the 
      areas of screen where a picture has to be drawn. It is also called 
      vector display, as it draws picture one line at time. It can draw and 
      refresh component lines of a picture in any specified sequence. Pen 
      plotter is an example of random-scan displays. 
      
      The number of lines regulates refresh rate on random-scan displays. 
      An area of memory called refresh display files stores picture 
      definition as a set of       line drawing commands.

      The system returns back to first-line command in the list, after all 
      the drawing commands have been processed. High-quality vector systems 
      can handle around 100, 00 short lines at this refresh rate. Faster 
      refreshing can burn phosphor. To avoid this every refresh cycle is 
      delayed to prevent refresh rate greater than 60 frames per second.

    i. Draw a diagram of this?
    ans: (SLIDE page 41)

 b. What is Refresh rate and further discuss?
 ans: Refresh rate refers to the frequency that a display updates the 
      onscreen image.

      The time between these updates is measured in milliseconds (ms), 
      while the refresh rate of the display is measured in hertz (Hz)

      The refresh rate of your display refers to how many times per second 
      the display is able to draw a new image. This is measured in Hertz 
      (Hz). 

      For example, if  your display has a refresh rate of 144Hz, it is 
      refreshing the image 144 times per second. When paired with the high 
      frame rates produced by a GPU and CPU working together, this can 
      result in a smoother experience and potentially higher FPS.

    i. Draw a diagram showing 120hz to 60hz to 30hz refresh rate comparison?
    ans: (SLIDE page 46)




9a. Discuss how the Raster Scan Display works?
ans: Raster Scan Displays are most common type of graphics monitor 
     which employs CRT. It is based on television technology. In raster 
     scan system electron beam sweeps across the screen, from top to 
     bottom covering one row at a time.

     A pattern of illuminated pattern of spots is created by turning beam 
     intensity on and off as it moves across each row. A memory area called 
     refresh buffer or frame buffer stores picture definition. This memory 
     area holds intensity values for all screen points. Stored intensity 
     values are restored from frame buffer and painted on screen taking one 
     row at a time. Each screen point is referred to as pixels.

  i. Draw a diagram of the Raster Scan Display?
  ans: (SLIDE page 48)



10a. Discuss how the Direct-View Storage Tube (DVST) works?
ans: Both in the raster scan and random scan system, the screen images are 
     maintained (flicker free) by redrawing or refreshing the screen many 
     times per second by cycling through the picture data stored in the 
     refresh buffer.

     A DVST gives the alternative method of maintaining the screen image, it uses the storage grid which stores the picture information as a charge distribution just behind the  phosphor-coated screen.
     It consists of two electron guns:
     1. Primary gun
     2. Flood gun
     
     DVST resembles CRT as it uses electron gun to draw picture and 
     phosphor coated screen to display it. The phosphor used in this is of 
     high persistence. DVST does not use refresh buffer or frame buffer to 
     store picture definition. Picture definition is stored inside CRT in 
     form positive charged distribution. 

     Because of this reason DVST is known as Storage Type CRT. In DVST no 
     refreshing is required as result picture drawn on DVST will be seen 
     for several minutes before fading.

  i. List and explain the 2 types of DVST electron guns?
  ans: The primary gun: stores the picture pattern and 
       The flood gun: maintains the picture display.

  b. Draw a diagram of DVST?
  ans: (SLIDE page 52)



11a. What is a Flat Panel Display?     
ans: A flat panel display is a television, monitor or other display device 
     that uses a thin panel design instead of a traditional cathode ray 
     tube (CRT) design. These screens are much lighter and thinner, and can 
     be much more portable than traditional televisions and monitors. They 
     also have higher resolution than older models  

  b. List 3 examples of Flat Panel Displays?
  ans: - Liquid crystal display (LCD), 
       - Gas plasma display (GPD) and 
       - Electroluminescent display (ELD)
 


12a. What are Vector Images?
ans: Vector images are graphical representations of mathematical objects 
     such as lines, curves, and polygons. These graphics are generated by 
     computer and they follow x and y axis as their reference definition.

  b. What is Vector Generation?
  ans: It is the process of “turning on” the pixels for a line segment

  c. List all the characteristics of a line?
  ans: 1. The line should appear as a straight line and it should start and 
          end accurately.
       2. The line should have equal brightness throughout their length 
       3. The line should be drawn rapidly.



13a. Study DDA Algorithm and know how to calculate it
ans: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W5P8GlaEOSI&t=4s

  b. List 3 advantages and 3 disadvantages of the line 
  ans: Advantages
       1. It is simple and easy to implement algorithm.
       2. It avoid using multiple operations which have high time 
          complexities.
       3. It is faster than the direct use of the line equation because it 
          does not use any floating point multiplication and it calculates 
          points on the line
       
       Disadvantages
       1. It deals with the rounding off operation and floating point 
          arithmetic so it has high time complexity.
       2. As it is orientation dependent, so it has poor endpoint accuracy.
       3. Due to the limited precision in the floating point representation 
          it produces cumulative error



14a. Study Bresenham's Line Drawing Algorithm and know how to calculate it
ans: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RGB-wlatStc





















