Chapter 1


1a. A network is a system of computers and computer peripherals that are connected together or
    A network is a system of interconnected computers and computer peripherals such as printers
 
 b. Interconnection helps computers share information and resources
 c. Computers are connected via a wired or wireless medium

 d. Geographical Span
    Interconnectivity
    Administration
    Architecture
 
 e. bluetooth enabled devices can have a network across a table that spans a few meters
    Network may be spanned across an entire building connecting all floors with intermediate devices
    Network may span an entire city
    Network may span the world

 f. The devices can have a point-to-point connection where all the devices are connected to each
    other. This is called a mesh topology

    The devices on a network can all be connected to a single medium and geographically disconnected. This is
    a bus-like structure

    The devices on a network can have a point-to-connection where all the devices on a network connect to
    a central network component. This is called the star topology

    The combination of multiple topologies in a single network is known as a hybrid topology

 g. A network can be private or public

 h. Private: if a network is private it has a single autonomous system that cannot be accessed outside the 
             physical and logical domain
    Public: if a network is public it is accessible to every one

 i. Computer Networks can be defined based on different architectures such as e.g
    client-server
    point-to-point
    hybrid

 j. Client-Server:  is one where there is two or more computers with atleast one being the
                    client and the other being the server. Client request service from the server
                    and the server responds to the client, providing that service if client is available
    Point-to-Point: in this architecture systems are connected in a point-to-point fashion. 
                    They reside on the same level and are called peers
    Hybrid:         This architecture is the combination of the Client-Server and Point-to-Point 
                    Architecture

 k. Resource sharing such as printers and storage devices
    Exchanging Information through emails and FTP
    Interaction with other users using dynamic web pages
    IP Phones
    instant messaging
    Video Conferencing
    parallel computing

 l. Personal Area Network (PAN)
    Local Area Network (LAN)
    Metropolitan Area Network (MAN)
    Wide Area Network (WAN)

 m. 
 i. Personal Area Network
    This is the smallest network and it is personal to a user
    Pan includes bluetooth enabled devices or infra-red enabled devices
    Pan has a connectivity range of up to 10meters

 ii. Local Area Netwok
     This is a network that spans/covers and entire building and is managed by a single autonomous system
     LAN covers an organizations offices, colleges or universities
     The number of systems that can connect to a LAN ranges from 2 users to as much as 16 million users
     LAN mostly operates on a private IP address and doesn't involve heavy routing
     LAN uses either the Ethernet or the Token-Ring Technology
     Ethernet is the most widely used LAN technology
     LAN can be wired or wireless or in both forms

 iii. Metropolitan Area Network
      This network covers an entire city such as cable TV
      MAN can use Ethernet, Token-Ring, Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM), Fiber Distributed Data Interface(FDDI)
      Metro Ethernet is a service provided by the ISP's
      These service enables users to expand their LANs

 iv. Wide Area Network
     This network covers a large area such as an entire province or country
     Telecommunication Networks are WANs
     WANs provide connectivity to MANs and LANs
     WANs use technologies such as Asynchronous Transfer Mode(ATM), Frame Relay, Synchronous Optical Network(SONET)
     WANs are equiped with high speed backbone
     WANs are managed by multiple administration

 
 n. Go ahead and draw them in your book or something
























 