1. SVG file
Description: Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) is an XML-based vector image format 
for two-dimensional graphics with support for interactivity and animation.

What does it store: svg files store XML based vector language that can be learnt and written but is 
preferably gotten using a tool like adobe illustrator.

What is it used for: it is used to describe the graphic or image(how it should look), an SVG file can be scaled to different sizes 
without losing quality(unlike jpeg and png) making it resolution-independent.



2. PDF file
Descrition: The PDF is an Abbreviation that stands for Portable Document Format

What does it store: it stores vector graphics, text, and bitmap graphics

What is it used for: The PDF file  file maintains the original document layout, which makes it helpful for signing paperwork and sharing plans. Y
ou can email, print and scan using this file format. And it is also great for sending and uploading your resume



3. TXT file
Description: The TXT file is a standard text based document that contains only text

What does it store: it stores plain text which can be opened and edited in any text-editing or word-processing program

what is it used for: it is used to write notes, instructions or just plain text only, anything else could result in 
symbols or display an error



4. HTML
Description: The HyperText Markup Language or HTML is the standard markup language for documents designed to be displayed in a web browser.

What does it store: The HTML file stores tags, symbols, texts that define the page layout and content of the webpage, including the text, 
tables, images, and hyperlinks displayed on the webpage

what is the structure: The HTML5 document is composed of 3 parts which are: the html tag, header tag and body tag

what is it used for: it is the fundamental building block for any webpage out on the web today. Just like in the building of a house(website), 
HTML is the foundation of that house and the blocks that make up the shape and size of that house.