CMP 418 EXAM PREP
Best Practice: Study using a big screen device. Be it a laptop or a tablet. It won't be best to use phones (even though y'all ain't with your phones 😉)



----------------------------------------------------------------











Lecture 1: Introduction










1a. What is an Algorithm?
ans: A sequence of unambiguous instruction for solving a problem that 
     is, for obtaining a required output for any legitimate input in a 
     finite amount of time
     OR
     It is a sequence of unambiguous instructions that yields required 
     output for every legitimate input in finite time

b. List 5 properties of Algorithms?
ans: - Finiteness
     - Definiteness
     - Input
     - Output
     - Effectiveness

b. Explain each property?
ans: - Finiteness: terminates after a finite number of steps.
     - Definiteness: each step must be rigorously and unambiguously 
       specified, e.g., “stir until lumpy”
     - Input: valid inputs must be clearly specified
     - Output: data that result upon completion of the algorithm must be 
       specified
     - Effectiveness: steps must be simple and basic, e.g., check if m is 
       prime

c. Draw the diagram of Algorithm Design and Analysis Process??
ans: Slide 1 (page 5)

d. List all 6 steps of Algorithm design?
ans: - Understanding the Problem
     - Decide on Exact vs. approximate solution
     - Algorithm Design and Data Structure
     - Prove correctness of the algorithm
     - Analyzing an Algorithm
     - Coding Algorithm

e. What is Algorithm Design Techniques?
ans: They are the general approach to solving problems algorithmically that 
     is applicable to a variety of problems from different areas of 
     computing 

e1. List 5 of these techniques?
ans: - Brute force
     - Decrease and Conquer
     - Divide and Conquer
     - Transform and Conquer
     - Space and time tradeoffs
     - Dynamic Programming

f. Algorithms + DataStructures = ______?
ans: Programs

g. List 5 Data Structures?
ans: List, Array, Dictionary, Sets, Queue, Stack

i. List the 2 techniques for proving the correctness?
ans: Exact algorithm
     Approximate algorithm

k. List 4 ways of analyzing an Algorithm?
ans: - Time efficiency
     - Space efficiency
     - Simplicity
     - Generality

k1. Explain all 4 ways?
ans: - Time efficiency: how fast it runs
     - Space efficiency: How much extra memory it uses
     - Simplicity: easier to understand, usually contains fewer bugs, 
       sometimes simpler is more efficient, but not always!
     - Generality: of the problem algorithm solves or the set of inputs it 
       accepts

l. List 5 important types of problems algorithms help us solve?
ans: - Sorting
     - Searching
     - String processing
     - Graph problem
     - Combinatorial Problem 
     - Geometric Problem 
     - Numerical Problem

m. What is Sorting?
ans: It is the rearranging of items in a given list (in a nondecreasing 
     order)

n. List the 2 properties of Sorting Algorithms?
ans: - stable
     - in-place

n1. Explain the 2 properties listed above?
ans: - stable: An sorting algorithm is stable if it preserves the relative 
               order of any 2 equal elements (in its input)
     - in-place: A sorting algorithm is said to be in-place if it does not 
                 require extra memory

n2. List 5 Sorting Algorithms?
ans: - Bubble sort
     - Selection sort
     - Insertion sort
     - Merge sort
     - Quick sort

o. What is a String?
ans: it is a sequence of characters from an alphabet. (it contains letters, 
     number, and special characters)

o1. What is string matching?
ans: it is a particular problem of searching for a given word/pattern in a 
     text

p. What is a Graph?
ans: It is a collection of points called vertices, some of which are 
     connected by line segments called edges

q. List the 3 fundamental data structures?
ans: - Linear Data Structure (Array, Linked list, Stacks and Queues)
     - Graphs (Directed, Undirected, Weighted, Unweighted, Circle)
     - Trees (Binary Tree, Binary Search Tree)

q1. List the 5 Basic Array Operations?
ans: - Traverse
     - Insertion
     - Deletion
     - Search
     - Update

q1. Explain all 5 Basic Array Operations?
ans: - Traverse: print all the array elements one by one.
     - Insertion: Adds an element at the given index.
     - Deletion: Deletes an element at the given index.
     - Search: Searches an element using the given index or by the value.
     - Update: Updates an element at the given index.

r. What is a tree?
ans: A tree is an undirected graph with no Circle
     OR
     A tree is a connected acyclic graph

s. What is a forest?
ans: A forest is a tree with no circle but may be disconnected.
     Additionally:
     - Between every two vertices there is exactly one simple path.
     - Any vertex can be regarded as the root, and then we have a rooted 
       tree.

t. Draw a tree that has a root and label it?
ans: Slide 1 (Page 34)

u. What is an Ordered tree?
ans: It is a rooted tree in which all children of each vertex are ordered

v. What is a Binary Tree?
ans: It is a type of ordered tree where each vertex has at most 2 children and each children is designated as either left child or right child

w. What is  a Binary Search Tree?
ans: It is a Binary Tree where each vertex is assigned a number?
     Additionally:
     - A number assigned to a parental vertex is larger than all numbers in 
       the left subtree and smaller than all numbers in the right subtree

w1. Draw an example of a Binary Search Tree (BST)?
ans: Slide 1 (Page 37)














Lecture 2: Fundamentals of the Analysis of Algorithm Efficiency









2a. What is the Analysis of Algorithm?
ans: It is the theoretical study of computer program performance 
     (processing speed) and resource usage (communication, primary and 
     secondary memory)

b. Analysis of algorithm’s efficiency can be achieve using 2 resources. 
   Name them?
ans: - Time efficiency and;
     - Space efficiency

b1. Explain both of resources?
ans: - Time efficiency: indicates how fast an algorithm in question runs ~ 
       performance
     - Space efficiency: refers to the amount of memory units required by 
       the algorithm in addition to the space needed for its input and 
       output ~ resource usage

b2. Time efficiency is also called _________, and space efficiency is also 
    called ________?
ans: - Time complexity
     - Space complexity

b3. List 8 other evaluable criteria of algorithm other than Time & Space 
    complexity
ans: - Correctness (Accuracy & precision)
     - Simplicity (Ease)
     - Maintainability (Continuity)
     - Cost of programming time
     - Robustness
     - Stability
     - Features
     - Security
     - Scalability

c. What are the questions one must ask in The Efficiency Analysis Framework?
ans: - How to measure an Input’s Size
     - How to state Units for Measuring Running Time
     - How to Compute Orders of Growth
     - How to derive Worst, Best and Average Cases Efficiencies

d. What is the Basic Operation(Bop) in algorithms?
ans: it is the operation contributing the most to the total running time 
     (we compute the number of times the basic operation is executed)
     OR
     it is the most time-consuming operation in the algorithm's innermost 
     loop

e. How do you measure Time efficiency?
ans: it is measured by counting the number of times the algorithm’s basic 
     operation is executed

e1. How do you measure Space efficiency?
ans: it is measured by counting the number of extra memory units consumed 
     by the algorithm

f. The Efficiency analysis framework’s primary interest lies where?
ans: It lies in the order of growth of the algorithm’s running time 
     (extra memory units consumed) as its input size goes to infinity.


Page 16: Asymptotic Notations and Basic Efficiency Classes

g. What is Asymptotic Order of Growth?
ans: It is a way of comparing functions that ignores constant factors and 
     small input sizes
     OR
     It is a way of comparing size and functionality of a function

Note: ≈ means "Approximately equal to (OR simply equal to OR same as)"
h. What is the equivalent of the following below?
   𝑶 ≈ ?, Ω ≈ ?, Θ ≈ ?, o ≈ ?, ω ≈ ?
ans: 𝑶 ≈ ≤
     o ≈ <, 
     Ω ≈ ≥
     ω ≈ >
     Θ ≈ =, 

     Cheat code: Cram the above rules, they will help you in the future

i. We can define Asymptotic Order of Growth in 2 methods. List them?
ans: - Using Theorem
     - Using definitions of O, Ω, and Θ notations

j. Define the below Asymptotic Notations?
   - Asymptotic O(big oh)-Notation
   - Asymptotic Ω(big Omega)-Notation
   - Asymptotic Θ(big theta)-Notation
ans: - Asymptotic O(big oh)-Notation
       A function t(n) is said to be in O(g(n)), denoted f(n) є O(g(n)), if 
       f(n) is bounded above by some positive constant multiple of g(n) for 
       sufficiently large n. If we can find +ve constants c and n0 (n not) such that: f(n) ≤ c × g(n) for all n ≥ n0.
       
       O(g(n)): is a set of functions that grow no faster than g(n).

     - Asymptotic Ω(big Omega)-Notation
       A function t(n) is said to be in Ω(g(n)), denoted f(n) є Ω(g(n)), if f(n) is bounded below by some positive constant multiple of g(n) for sufficiently large n. If we can find +ve constants c and n0 such that: f(n) ≥ c × g(n) for all n ≥ n0 
       
       Ω(g(n)): Set of functions that grow no faster than f(n).
       
     - Asymptotic Θ(big theta)-Notation
       A function f(n) is said to be in Θ(g(n)) denoted f(n) є Θ(g(n)), if f
       (n) is bounded both above and below by some positive constant 
       multiples of g(n) for all sufficiently large n. If we can find +ve 
       constants c1, c2, and n0 such that. c2 × g(n) ≤ f(n) ≤ c1× g(n) ∀n ≥ 
       n0 (n not)

j1. Draw a diagram for each Asymptotic Notation listed above?
ans: - Asymptotic O(big oh)-Notation
       Slide 2 (page 18)
       
     - Asymptotic Ω(big Omega)-Notation
       Slide 2 (page 20)

     - Asymptotic Θ(big theta)-Notation
       Slide 2 (page 22)

i. List out the 7 properties of Logarithms?
ans:  Slide 2 (page 26)

j. Write out the 4 Sum Manipulation Rules?
ans: Slide 2 (page 29)

k. List the General Plan for Analysis of Nonrecursive Algorithms?
ans: - Decide on parameter n indicating input size
     - Identify algorithm’s basic operation
     - Determine worst, average, and best cases for input of size n
     - Set up a sum for the number of times the basic operation is executed
     - Simplify the sum using standard formulas and rules to establish its 
       order of growth














Lecture 3: Brute Force and Exhaustive Search
















3a. What is Brute Force Approach (BFA)?
ans: it is the first algorithm design Approach

a1. In short, brute force means __________?
ans: Just do it

b. How does Selection Sort work?
ans: We start selection sort by scanning the entire given list to find its 
     smallest element and Exchange it with the first element

c. Describe Selection Sort?
ans: Slide 3 (page 4)

     Tip: Use video below to see an animation of how it works
     https://visualgo.net/en/sorting

c1. Write the Selection Sort Algorithm?
ans: Slide 3 (page 5)

c2. Using the Selection Sort Algorithm, show the step by step sorting of 
    the below arrays
i.   A = 89   45   68   90   29   34   17
ii.  A = 13   11   33   48   9   81   62   28  
iii. A = 13   11   33   48   9   81
ans: Tip: Slide 3 (page 5)

c3. Calculate to find the complexity class of the Selection sort algorithm?
ans: Tip: Slide 3 (page 5)

d1. Write the Bubble Sort Algorithm?
ans: Slide 3 (page 7)

d2. Using the Bubble Sort Algorithm, show the step by step sorting of 
    the below arrays
i.   A = 89   45   68   90   29   34   17
ii.  A = 13   11   33   48   9   81   62   28  
iii. A = 13   11   33   48   9   81
ans: Tip: Slide 3 (page 7)

d3. Calculate to find the complexity class of the Bubble sort algorithm?
ans: Tip: Slide 3 (page 7)

e. What is the difference between Selection and Bubble sort?
ans: 

f. Write the Sequential Search Algorithm?
ans: Slide 3 (page 14)














Lecture 3: Decrease and Conquer
















4a. What is Decrease and Conquer?
ans: It is based on exploiting the relationship between a solution to a 
     given instance of a problem and a solution to its smaller instance

b. Top-down means _______, and Bottom-up means ________?
ans: Recursive, iterative

c. What are the 3 major types?
ans: - Decrease by a constant
     - Decrease by a constant factor
     - Decrease by Variable size





























