1. Data Management is the practice of collecting, keeping, and using data securely,
   efficiently and cost-effectively

b. help people, organizations and connected things to optimize the use of data 
   within the bounds of policy and regulations so as to make decisions and take 
   actions that maximize the benefit of the organization

c. Create value

d. True

e. organize, process and manage information in a structured and controlled manner

f. A database is a comprehensive collection of data organized for easy access

g. True

h. Custommer Management Process
   Inventory tracking
   Employee db
   Productivity reporting
   Financial    reporting
   Data Analysis
   Supply Chain Management

i. it is the way the information is structured

j. Lack of data integration
   Lack of standard
   Lack of central control
   Inconsistency
   Redundancy
   Lack of multiple views

Advantages
k. Data can be viewed in multiple ways
   Reduced data redundancy
   Reduced updating errors and increased inconsistency
   greater data integrity
   improved data access to users through host and query languages
   improved data security
   Reduced data entry, retrieval, and storage cost
   Facilitated development of new application programs
   Centralized control of data
   Standard can be easily enforced

l. DB systems are complex, difficult and time-consuming to design
   Substantial software and hardware start up costs
   Damage to db affects virtually all application programs
   Extensive conversion cost when moving from a file system to a database system
   Initial training required for all programmers and users



Exam Simulation
1a. Data Management is the practice of collecting,keeping, using data securely, 
    effeciently and cost-effectively

 ii. is to help people, organizaations and connected things to optimize the use
     of data within the bounds of policy and regulations so as to make decisions
     and take actions that maximizes the benefit of the organization

 b. Database is a comprehensive collection of data organized for easy access

 ii. Employee database
     Customer Management Process
     Inventory Tracking
     Productivity Reporting
     Financial Reporting
     Supply chain management

 iii. Lack of data integrity
      Lack of central control
      Lack of standard
      Lack of multiple views
      Redundancy
      Data inconsistency


     ADVANTAGES: 
 iv. - Provides multiple views of data
     - Reduced Redundancy
     - Reduced updating errors and increased consistency
     - greater data integrity
     - standards can be enforced
     - centralized control of data
     
     DISADVANTAGES:
     - substantial hardware and software start-up cost
     - intial training required for programmers and users
     - database systems are complex, difficult and time-consuming to design
     - damage to db affects virtually all the application programs
     - extensive conversion cost when moving from a file system to a database system





2. DBMS are softwares used to manage the database

b. MySQL,
   ORACLE,
   SQL SERVER,
   PostgreSQL
   Amazon SimpleDB
   IBM DB2

c. database creation
   storing data
   updating data
   creating tables

d. Data Definition
   Data Manipulation
   Data Retrieval
   User Administration

e. Data stored into tables
   Reduced Redundancy
   Data Consistency
   Security
   Supports multiple users and Concurrent Access
   Query Language
   Supports transaction

f. - Segregation of application program
   - reduced redundancy
   - easy retrieval
   - reduced development time and maintenance need
   - with cloud dbms we can store almost an infinite amount of data
   - seamless integration into appliccations

g. its complexity
   except MySQL which is open source, licensed DBMS are costly
   They are large in size

h. organizes our files to give us more control over our data
   allows us to create, retrieve, update, and delete data in our files
   provides: concurrency, data integrity, data description, backup and recovery

i. Database Administrator (DBA)
   



































