3RD LECTURE (Practical Begins)

1. If you are using wamp paste the extracted wordpress folder in
C:/wamp/www

If you re using xampp
C:/xampp/htdocs

2. Once that is done we should have the below look
C:/wamp/www/wordpress
C:/xampp/htdocs/wordpress

3. Rename the wordpress folder to your desired business name
C:/wamp/www/handy
C:/xampp/htdocs/handy

4. Open your browser and visit localhost
http://localhost/phpmyadmin (or localhost:8080)

Enter username: root
Enter password:          # leave blank

click on 'Go


SPIN-OFF QUESTION
Lecturer Asks: Who can tell me why we are using root?
This is because the super user is always found in the root


7. Click on the user account and if you do so you should see some users

Click on Edit root bottom in the root row and if you do so you should see that almost all the check boxes are ticked
and it is not advised to create a project using the roo therefore we would need to create a new user


8. Go back
9. Add new user
10 Enter details
   Enter Username: daniel 
   Host  name:                // skip this field
   Enter Password: 12345
   Re-type:        12345

11. Scroll down to the Global Priviledges

12. Click on Check all on Global Priviledges (Note: In a real world scenario we wouldn't do this but for class purposes let's check all)

13. Click on go to create user

14. Now Open another tab on the browser and visit
localhost/handy

15. Open another tab and visit the below link in order to create a database
localhost:phpmyadmin

16. Click on new (left tab) and then create a database with the name handy
name: Handy
click create

17. Go back to 
localhost/handy

click Let's go! button

18. Fill out the form
Database Name: handy
Username: daniel
password: 12345
skip the rest!

Click Submit

Click Run the installation

19. Fill out the form
Site Title: handy
Username: daniel
Password: 12345  
confirm password: ✅
Your Email: 00chukwudaniel@gmail.com


Click Install WordPress

Page loads >> Success!

20. Click on Log In
    Enter Username: daniel
    Enter Password: 12345
    Remember Me: ✅
    click on Log In

21. On the header, hover over handy(your site name) and you should see a drop down that says visit Site, Click on that


Click on the W (wordpress) Logo to go back to the admin page

Hover on the Appearance and then click on Themes and just like that we can select any theme of our choice


ANY QUESTIONS

NEXT CLASS:
We are going to be setting up a theme in the website









4TH LECTURE

1. Run your wamp or xamp server

2. visit the below link after wamp or xamp server is running
localhost/handy

2. Visit our dashboard
http://localhost/handy/wp-admin/

2. Hover over plugins and select add new (requires internet)

3. Search for yoast SEO, INSTALL AND ACTIVATE IT

4. Click 'Start first time configuration'

5. If you've done that lets add one more plugin

6. Hover over plugins and select add new and then search for woocommerce and then install it
This is a plugin that allows you to have a card system on your website - It enables card payment for short
(Not Required though but I would advise u to play with it)

7. Install and activate It

8. Click on pages on the left panel.. You should see Privacy Policy by default because every website should have this by
default

9. Hover over handy and click on visit site (To visit your website)

10. Go back to pages and click on Add New

11. Give it a title of About Us

Click preview to select what screen size you would like to see the website displayed on

12. Beneath 'About Us' click on the + (We can add whatever element we want)

13. Click add Image. (Click upload, or media library if you've uploaded images before)

14. Add new image and caption

15. Scroll down to our SEO plugin section and see a live preview of how our website would be displayed on a google search

16. Scroll back up and click on the + (We want to now add a paragraph)

17. Add a paragraph 'Write whatever you want in here. But should preferably be about your website'

18. Scroll down to the Yoast SEO section and then click on 🙂Readability

Whenever you are writing something about your website make sure that it has keywords. e.g pastry (or whatever u are focused on)
You should have 

19. Click on pages on the right panel

20. You can select a featured image

20. Under discussions you can allow comments

22. When u are done you can click publish on the top panel and then have our created page added to our website

22.5 In response to publishing we get back the published pages URL. We can use that to visit the page

23. Go back to dashboard > Click on post (on the left panel) and then click on add New post

24. Note: If we publish a post it is going to be added to the home of our website

The post isn't like the about us where we write about the company and we maybe would instead write about a new product or so

26. Go back to the dashboard > hover on Appearance and then select Themes > Click on Add New or use the 3 free themes you see

Spin-off: You can also visit themeforest.net to get specific themes that you could not find in our appearance 

27. Appearance > customize > site identity (This is where you can edite the Sites Title and Sites Logo) 

28. Select site icon and pick and pick an icon for our handy website


Assignment
Go to canva and then create your buisness logo and then use that to replace the current site icon for your project
On the About page write out why we should be patronized as a business
Have atleast One post on a product
Note: Delegate these tasks to group members


29. Go back on the left panel > On the left panel click on the HomePage Setting > It should be set to latest post

30. On the left panel click on Additional CSS just incase you want to add some additional CSS

31. Go back to our dashboard and then click on Users on the left panel and you should see that 1 user you created

32. Click Add New User and then you should see a list of fields for a new user. Most important thing is where you see : Role
 
Note: An administrator has access to the entire website

33. Select An Editor or an Author to limit the users access (Note: The subscriber has the least amount of priviledges on the website)

34. Click on Users > Profiole > Select any theme you would like for your interface

35. Scroll down to the bottom to add social media info

36. Click on Settings > General (This allows you to customize important things about the website like the websites URL)

37. Go back to ur website and then click on the Hello World! post > Scroll down to the comments

Leave an actual comment 'This is Awesome' (or whatever u'd like)

38. Once u've left a comment go back to the admin > Click on comments and you should see the comment you just added












5TH LECTURE (I missed this class -> Lotta's Note down below)

WHAT WE'VE COVERED ABOUT TODAY'S CLASS

Mr. Barka introduced us to 2 new websites that would help us on our website creation

The first was:
https://smallseotools.com/keywords-suggestions-tool/

Here he talked about how to use the keyword checker, this helps to create content for our webpage by suggesting trending topic ideas with the keyword we type into the search box.

Also, he introduced us to the Plagiarism checker. This helps us confirm if our content is original or stolen, in order to avoid copyright issues.


Next was: https://www.reduceimages.com/

This website helps us to properly size any image we decide to use on our website, and also adjust the image quality in order for the image to look visually appealing








