1. Explain Lexical Analysis
ans: Lexical analysis, the first phase of a compiler, involves reading the 
     source program's characters and grouping them into lexemes. Each 
     lexeme is then converted into a token of the form <token-name, 
     attribute-value>, which is passed to the syntax analysis phase. The 
     token's token-name is an abstract symbol used during syntax analysis, 
     and the attribute-value points to the symbol table entry for that 
     token, providing information for semantic analysis and code generation.

     For example, consider the assignment statement 
     position = initial + rate * 60. 
     The lexemes in this statement are mapped to tokens and passed to the syntax analyzer:

     - position maps to <id, 1>, where id represents an identifier and 1 
       points to the symbol table entry for position.
     - The assignment symbol = maps to <=> (Since this doesn't need an 
       attribute value, we've omitted it)
     - initial maps to <id, 2>, pointing to the symbol table entry for 
       initial.
     - + maps to <+>.
     - rate maps to <id, 3>, pointing to the symbol table entry for rate.
     - * maps to <*>.
     - 60 maps to <60>.
     
     Blanks between lexemes are discarded. The assignment statement after 
     lexical analysis is represented as a sequence of tokens:
     
     <id, 1> <=> <id, 2> <+> <id, 3> <*> <60>.

2. Explain Syntax Analysis?
ans: Syntax analysis, the second phase of a compiler, involves using the 
     tokens produced by the lexical analyzer to create a tree-like 
     intermediate representation that shows the grammatical structure of 
     the token stream. This representation is often a syntax tree, where 
     interior nodes represent operations and their children represent the 
     operation's arguments.

     The syntax tree for our token stream is:
               =
             /   \
       <id, 1>     +
                 /   \
           <id, 2>     *
                     /   \  
               <id, 3>    60 

     - The node labeled * indicates multiplication, with rate (represented 
       by <id, 3>) as the left child and 60 as the right child.

     - The node labeled + indicates addition, with the result of the 
       multiplication as the left child and initial (represented by <id, 2>) as the right child.
     
     - The root node labeled = indicates assignment, with the result of the 
       addition as the left child and position (represented by <id, 1>) as the right child. 

3. Explain Semantic Analysis?
ans: The semantic analyzer, using the syntax tree and the symbol table, 
     checks the source program for semantic correctness according to the 
     language definition. It ensures that operators have matching operands 
     and performs type checking. For example, if an array index should be 
     an integer, the analyzer reports an error if a floating-point number 
     is used.

     In our example, if position, initial, and rate are declared as 
     floating-point numbers, and 60 is an integer, the semantic analyzer 
     notes that the * operator is applied to a floating-point number (rate) 
     and an integer (60). It then converts the integer into a 
     floating-point number, as shown in the figure with an inttofloat 
     operator node.

     The semantic analyzer's role is to ensure that the types of operands 
     are compatible with the operators being applied and to perform any 
     necessary type conversions for consistency.

     The syntax tree for our token stream is:
               =
             /   \
       <id, 1>     +
                 /   \
           <id, 2>     *
                     /   \  
               <id, 3>   inttofloat
                             | 
                            60 

4. Explain Intermediate Code Generation
ans: During the translation of a source program into target code, compilers 
     often create intermediate representations. Syntax trees, a common form 
     of intermediate representation, are used in syntax and semantic 
     analysis. After analyzing the source program, compilers generate a 
     low-level intermediate representation, resembling a program for an 
     abstract machine. This intermediate representation should have two 
     important properties:
     1. It should be simple and easy to produce  
     2. It should be easy to translate into the target machine

     In our example we would have
      t1 = intofloat(60)
      t2 = id3 * t1
      t3 = id2 + t2
      id1 = t3

5. Explain the Code Optimizer
ans: The machine-independent code-optimization phase attempts to improve 
     the intermediate code so that a better target code will be the result. 
     
     The objectives for performing optimization are: faster execution, 
     shorter code, or target code that consumes less power. In our example, 
     the optimized code is: 
      t1 = id3 * 60.0
      id1 = id2 + t1

6. Explain the Code Generator?
ans: The code generator converts the intermediate representation of the 
     source program into the target language. For machine code, it assigns 
     registers or memory locations to variables and translates intermediate 
     instructions into machine instructions. An important part is the 
     efficient assignment of registers. If the target language is assembly, 
     this phase generates assembly code.

      LDF  R2, id3
      MULF R2, R2, # 60.0
      LDF  R1, id2
      ADDF R1, R1, R2
      STF  id1, R1

     Each instruction's first operand is a destination. The 'F' indicates 
     floating-point operations. The code loads id3 into R2, multiplies it 
     by 60.0, loads id2 into R1, adds the values, and stores the result in 
     id1, correctly implementing 
     
     position = initial + rate * 60. 

7. Explain Symbol-Table Management?
ans: A key role of a compiler is to record variable names used in the 
     source program and gather information about each name's attributes. 
     These attributes include storage allocation, type, scope (where the 
     value can be used), and for procedures, the number and types of 
     arguments, and how each argument is passed (by value or reference), 
     and the return type.
     
     The symbol table is a data structure containing a record for each 
     variable name, with fields for its attributes. The table is designed 
     to allow the compiler to quickly find and access the record for each 
     name

8. Explain Error Detection and Reporting
ans: Each phase can encounter errors. However, after detecting an error, a 
     phase must somehow deal with that error, so that compilation can 
     proceed, allowing further errors in the source program to be detected. 

     A compiler that stops when it finds the first error is not a helpful 
     one. 

9. Show the translation of the below assignment statement through the 
   compiler
ans: SLIDE page 7

10. List the 2 main phases of compilers and discuss them?
ans: Analysis phase
     Synthesis phase
     
     Explanation: 

     1. Analysis
     Analysis Phase performs 4 actions namely:  
      a. Lexical analysis   
      b. syntax analysis   
      c. Semantic analysis   
      d. Intermediate Code Generation

     The analysis part breaks up the source program into constituent pieces 
     and imposes a grammatical structure on them. It then uses this 
     structure to create an intermediate representation of the source 
     program. If the analysis part detects that the source program is 
     either syntactically ill formed or semantically unsound, then it must 
     provide informative messages, so the user can take corrective action. 
     The analysis part also collects information about the source program 
     and stores it in a data structure called a symbol table, which is 
     passed along with the intermediate representation to the synthesis part


     2. Synthesis phase
     Synthesis Phase performs 2 actions namely:  
      e. Code Optimization   
      f. Code Generation
     The synthesis part constructs the desired target program from the intermediate representation and the information in the symbol table. 
     
     The analysis part is often called the front end of the compiler; the synthesis part is the back end

11. What is a Syntax Tree?
 ans: Syntax tree is an abstract or compact form of a parse tree. They are 
      also called Abstract Syntax Trees

 b. What is a Parse Tree?
 ans: A parse tress is a graphical representation of the replacement 
      process of a derivation

 c. Draw a Syntax Tree and a Parse Tree
 ans: (SyntaxTree.pdf page 1)

 d. List 4 differences between a Parse tree and a Syntax tree?
 ans: TABLE: Parse Tree (P) vs Syntax Tree (S)
 P1. Parse tree is a graphical representation of the replacement process 
     in a derivation
 S1. Syntax tree is the compact form of a parse tree

 P2. Each interior node represents a grammar rule (or nonterminal). 
     Each leaf node represents a terminal.
 S2. Each interior node represents an operator. 
     Each leaf node represents an operand.  
 
 P3. Parse trees provide every characteristic information from the real 
     syntax.
 S3. Syntax trees do not provide every characteristic information from 
     the real syntax

 P4. Parse trees are comparatively less dense than syntax trees
 S4. Syntax trees are comparatively more dense than parse trees


 e. Generate the Postfix and Parse Tree for the below?
    - ( a + b ) * ( c – d ) + ( ( e / f ) * ( a + b ))


12. List and explain 5 types of compilers
ans: - One Pass Compiler: A compiler that passes through the source code 
       only once, generating the target code without revisiting any part of the code.

     - Multi Pass Compiler: A compiler that makes multiple passes through 
       the source code, each time performing different tasks such as 
       lexical analysis, syntax analysis, semantic analysis, optimization, 
       and code generation.

     - Single-pass Compiler: A compiler that processes the source code in a 
       single pass but may make multiple passes over the input to handle 
       forward references.  

     - Just-In-Time (JIT) Compiler: A compiler that translates bytecode or 
       intermediate code into machine code at runtime, often used in 
       virtual machines to improve performance.

     - Ahead-Of-Time (AOT) Compiler: A compiler that translates source code 
       into machine code before execution, producing a standalone 
       executable file.

     - Cross-Compiler: A compiler that runs on one platform but generates 
       code for another platform, used for developing software for 
       different architectures or operating systems.


13. Define the following terms?
ans: - Alphabet: In computer science, an alphabet refers to a set of 
       symbols or characters that are used to construct strings. e.g {0, 1} 

     - String: A string is a sequence of characters. In programming, a 
       string is often used to represent text and is enclosed in quotation 
       marks. For example, "hello" is a string consisting of the characters 
       'h', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o'.

     - Language: In the context of formal languages, a language is a set of 
       strings over an alphabet. It can be finite or infinite. For example, 
       the language of all binary strings that start with '0' is an 
       infinite set of strings like "0", "00", "000", and so on.

14. 
ans: Advantages of a Compiler:
     - Efficiency: Compiled code tends to be faster than interpreted code 
       because it is translated directly into machine code, optimizing 
       performance.

     - Portability: Once compiled, the executable code can be run on any 
       system that supports the target architecture, without needing the 
       original source code or compiler.

     - Optimization: Compilers can perform various optimizations, such as 
       code reordering and constant folding, to improve the efficiency of 
       the generated code.

     - Error Checking: Compilers can catch syntax errors and some semantic 
       errors during the compilation process, helping to identify issues early in the development cycle.

     - Security: Compiled code can be more secure than interpreted code, as 
       the source code is not exposed and can be harder to reverse-engineer.

     Disadvantages of a Compiler:
     - Compilation Time: Compiling large programs can take a significant 
       amount of time, especially for complex optimizations and large 
       codebases.

     - Debugging: Debugging compiled code can be challenging, as the 
       generated machine code is not human-readable, making it harder to 
       identify and fix issues.

     - Platform Dependence: Compiled code is often specific to a particular 
       platform or architecture, requiring separate compilation for 
       different targets.

     - Memory Usage: Compiled programs may consume more memory than 
       interpreted programs, as they often include static data and code 
       segments.

     - Flexibility: Once compiled, the code cannot be easily modified 
       without recompilation, limiting the ability to make quick changes or 
       updates.


     Advantages of an Interpreter:
     - Interactivity: Interpreters can provide a more interactive 
       development environment, allowing for quick testing and 
       experimentation with code snippets.

     - Portability: Since interpreters work with the source code directly, 
       they can be more portable than compilers, requiring only an 
       interpreter for execution.

     - Ease of Development: Interpreted languages often have simpler syntax 
       and semantics, making them easier to learn and use for beginners.

     - Dynamic Typing: Interpreted languages typically support dynamic 
       typing, allowing variables to change type at runtime, which can simplify development in some cases.

     - Debugging: Debugging interpreted code can be easier than debugging 
       compiled code, as interpreters can provide more detailed error 
       messages and support interactive debugging features.

     Disadvantages of an Interpreter:
     - Performance: Interpreted code is generally slower than compiled 
       code, as it is translated and executed line by line at runtime.

     - Dependency on Interpreter: Interpreted languages require the 
       presence of the interpreter on the target system, which can limit 
       portability and increase deployment complexity.

     - Security: Interpreted code can be more vulnerable to certain types 
       of attacks, such as code injection, as the source code is often 
       exposed.

     - Memory Usage: Interpreters may consume more memory than compiled 
       programs, as they need to keep track of the source code and 
       interpreter state during execution.

     - Lack of Optimization: Interpreters may not perform as many 
       optimizations as compilers, leading to potentially less efficient 
       code execution.


















