CMP 408 EXAM PREP


----------------------------------------------------------------


SLIDE 1




INFORMATION SECURITY


Brief History

1a. Who did an intrusion on a pentagon computer and in what year?
ans: Kevin Mitnick in 1983

b. How much did the first worm ever created caused in damages and who created it?
ans: It cost $50,000 and was created by Robert Tappan

c. Who intruded the American bank computer and stole 10 million dollars and in what year?
ans: Vladimir Levin did in the year 1994

d. Which 16 years old infiltrated a NASA computer and had access to data worth 1,7 millions dollars and in what year?
ans: Jonathan James in the year 1999
  
e. List the 4 goals of Computer Security?
ans: - Integrity
     - Confidentiality
     - Reliability
     - Authentication
  
e1. Explain the 4 goals of Computer Security?
ans: - Integrity: Guarantee that the data is what we expect
     - Confidentiality: The information must just be accessible to the authorized people
     - Reliability: Computers should work without having unexpected problems
     - Authentication: Guarantee that only authorized persons can access to the resources

g. List the 3 types of Security?
ans: Network Security
     System and Software Security
     Physical Security

h. List 4 common attacks?
ans: Network attacks
     Web attacks
     OS, applications and software attacks
     Social Engineering

h1. Give 2 examples for each common attacks listed?
ans: Network attacks - (e.g Packet sniffing, man-in-the-middle, DNS hacking)
     Web attacks - (e.g Phishing, SQL Injection, Cross Site Scripting)
     OS, applications and software attacks - (e.g Virus, Trojan, Worms, Rootkits, Buffer Overflow)
     Social Engineering

i. What is a virus?
ans: It's a piece of code that automatically reproduces itself. It’s attached to other 
     programs or files, but requires user intervention to propagate

j. What is a worm?
ans: It's a piece of code that automatically reproduces itself over the Network. It doesn’t 
     need user intervention to propagate (autonomous)

k. What is a Backdoor?
ans: A backdoor is a program placed by a black-hacker that allows him to 
     access a system. A backdoor have many functionalities such as 
     keyboard-sniffer, display spying, etc

l. What is a Trojan?
ans: A Trojan is a software that seems useful in the beginning, but is actually 
     hiding a malicious functionality

m. What is RootKits (the ultimate virus)?
ans: Rootkits operate like backdoor and Trojan, but also modify existing 
     programs in the operating system. That allows a black-hacker to control 
     the system without being detected. A rootkit can be in user-mode or in 
     kernel-mode.

n. What is the goal of backdoor, Trojan and rootkits?
ans: The goal of backdoor, Trojan and rootkits is to take possession of a 
     machine subsequently through an infection made via a backdoor

o. What is Social Engineering?
ans: Manipulating a person(s) in divulging confidential information

p. List the types of Password attacks?
ans: Password guessing
     Dictionary attacks
     Rainbow table

q. What are the below?
   - Vulnerability
   - Threat
   - Countermeasure
ans: 
    - Vulnerability: is a point where a system is susceptible to attack
    - Threat: is a possible danger to the system
    - Countermeasure: are techniques for protecting your system

r. List 4 techniques for achieving security (Computer and Network Security)?
ans: - Cryptography
     - Secure networks
     - Antivirus software
     - Firewalls

s. List 4 "safe computing" practices that users can practice to improve 
   security
ans: - Not downloading from unsafe websites
     - Not opening attachments
     - Not trusting what you see on websites
     - Avoiding Scams

t. What is Cryptography?
ans: It's simply secret codes

u. What is Encryption?
ans: It is the conversion of data into unreadable codes (to prevent anyone from accessing 
     the data). It needs a key, to find the original data

w. What are Public keys?
ans: An ingenious system of proving you know your password without disclosing your password.

x. What is Hashing?
ans: creating fingerprints of documents











SLIDE 2





2a.














