EPS 228

Note: Don't read this trying to cram it. Read it to learn, have fun doing so. it is really interesting.


MODULE FOUR


NEW VENTURE CREATION


Introduction and Definition

What is a Feasibility study?
A feasibility study is an evaluation or analysis of the potential impact of a proposed project. Feasibility study determines how the 
challenges are tackled. Buisness feasibility study format can be as simple or complex as you desire. it provides an overview of the 
primary issues related to a business idea. The purpose is to identify any "make or break" issues that would prevent your buisness from
being successful in the marketplace.

Simple Definition: Feasibility study is a report showing whether or not to proceed with the project

Feasibility study is divided into four(4) parts:
1. Market Environment: is there potential for your product or service to make you money
2. Technical and Operational requirements: what equipments and human resources (workers) will the buisness need
3. Financial Projection: what are the expenses and incomes of the business. How long will it take to break even(or become profitable)
4. Economic Contribution: your buisness contribution to the community, society or economy


1. Market Report
A buisness is assessed as feasible, if it can be shown that there is sufficient market demand. That is if you can show that there is enough
customers who will purchase sufficient product/services to a point where the buisness is profitable.

Steps to determining Market Demand:
1) Are you selling to individuals, households or businesses?
2) What is the population of these customers in your target geographical location?
3) How much, in an average year do customers spend on your product/service?
4) What are total sales for the region?
5) How much is currenty purchased in the region?
6) Is there space in the market for new players(your buisness)?

it is very important to make sure that there is space for you in that market and the market is not saturated or crowded with people offering
the same product/service as you, that is even if you feel like your product(e.g okpa) tastes different or is just bigger and better. 
If there is no space due to several similar buisnesses already there, consider looking for a new location.

Other important considerations include:
- What stage of the product life-cycle is the target population in? Let me explain:
  Is it a new industry?(e.g instagram influencing)
  Or mature industry? - a mature industry may mean that the market is already crowded
- Is the market dominated by a few large players, or is it fragmented(divided) into smaller but hundreds of players(businesses)?
- Is competition based on price or value? 
  if it is value then maybe you having a product you feel is better is to your advantage
  if it is price then maybe the people there are somewhat broke and can't afford your product so doing buisness in that location might not be the best move


2. The Technical Report
A business is considered technically and operationally feasible if it has the necessary expertise, infrastructure and capital to develop,
install, operate and maintain the proposed system, and that by estblishing such a system, the business will be able to deliver godds or 
services at a profit

The technical report will cover: (optional)
- Equipment: 
  Type of equipment and technology needed for the buisness and there costs
- Suppliers:
  suppliers for these equipments and there location
  Are there any waranties on this supplies and how long does it take for the supplys(equipments) to get to you
- Materials:
  How much raw material is needed and which quality?
- Raw Materials:
  suppliers for the raw materials and there location
  Are there any waranties on this supplies and how long does it take for the supplys(raw materials) to get to you
- Layout of Facilities:
  location for facilities, and size(space) needed
  cost to build facility and does the location have adequate access to infrastructures (e.g highways, railways etc.)
- Management
  organisation structure best for the business and key staff positions to be filled
  qualifications needed to manage operations and what experience does management need to have?


3. Financing Report
When considering a new business, it is important to consider if there is sufficient access to resources. The primary reason new businesses
fail is under-capitalisation - not enough money to keep the business from going from startup until it is profitable.

Before the financing plan, you have to know the total initial costs which is analysed as follows:
a. What is the total start-up cost needed to start operations?(e.g cost of land, plant, equipments)
b. What are the day-to-day operating costs?(e.g wages, rent, utilities, interest payment on debts)
c. Based on sales what is the business's projected income?
d. How will you determine your pricing arrangements?
e. What are the possible sources of financing? Who are potential lenders? What will their terms and limitations be?
f. Based on estimated revenues and costs, what is the projected profit/loss of the business over the first five years?
g. When does the business break even? (Aim for no longer than 18 months)

if a buisness passes all the above criteria, then it has potential to succeed


4. The Economic Report
One of the feasibility factors that need to be assessed is economic feasibility. Economic feasibility can be assessed by doing the
cost-benefit analysis. A business or project is regarded as economically feasible if it is able to produce goods/services and 
distribute them to the marketplace and still return a profit to the owners.

There are several economic evaluation methods available to assess an investment(cost-benefit method):
1. Net Present Value (NPV)
2. Internal Rate of Return (IRR)

The most popular economic evaluation method is the IRR which is used by two-thirds of industrial companies(Chen 1996), this is because
managers prefer a percentage rate of return more thatn the naira amout from NPV

Before calculating NPV and IRR, one should have an understanding of basic finance concept called ___________________.
Ans: "Time value of money".


Business Plan
Feasibility Report is the foundation for writing a Business Plan. It is difficult to write a Business Plan without first preparing a Feasibility 
Report. The business plan which is like the icing on the cake focuses on how the events stated in the Feasibility Report will take place
given a timeframe

A Business Plan is made up of the below major components?
i.    Executive summary
ii.   Company description
iii.  Objective statement or business goals
iv.   Business and management structure
v.    Products and Services
vi.   Marketing and sales plan
vii.  Business financial analysis
viii. Financial Projections
ix.   Appendix


Participation in the Nigerian Business Environment: Regulatory and Legal Framework

Introduction
In Nigeria, there are quite a number of legislation that governs the Nigerian Business environment. People run buisnesses without registering.
The law allows a window period of 28days after which any business in operation is required to register or else an action will be enforced 
against the business man. 
The governments agenda in the economy is to subdue inflation, deflation, provide comprehensive fiscal and monetary framework, stabilise the 
exchange rate, improve balance of trade and drive economic growth and development through whatever means legally possible. That is why
governments scout for foreign investment to boast her economy. Therefor Full or partial ownership of business by foreign investor is now
permitted

Relevant Laws Governing Corporate Business Operation in Nigeria
- The Companies and Allied Matters Act, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN) 2004
- The National Office of Technology Acquisition and Promotion Act (NOTAP aCT)
- The Companies Income (Amendment) Tax Act 2007
- Capital Gains Tax Act

Regulatory Bodies
For companies who wish to operate in certain sectors. The below agencies set out the requirements to operate in those sectors
1. Central Bank of Nigeria
2. Securities and Exchange Commision
3. National Agency for Food Drug and Cosmetics
4. Nigerian Communications Commission
5. National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion
6. Standards Organization of Nigeria
7. Consumer Protection Council


Role of the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC)

CAC was established under the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA), 1990.
The commission is the Agency of Government charged with regulation and supervision of the formation, incorporation, registration and 
management of Companies, Business Names and Incorporated Trustees.

The services offered by the Commission include:
a. Regulation and supervision of the formation, incorporation, registration and management of Companies, Business Names and 
   Incorporated Trustees
b. Registration of changes, amendments and alterations in particulars of Companies, Business Names and Incorporated Trustees
c. Repository for statutory records of Companies, Business Names and Incorporated Trustees.
d. Searches
f. Issuance of certified true copies of certificates
g. Enforcement of compliance of Companies, Business Names and Incorporated Trustees
e.t.c.

Forms of Business Investment Platforms in Nigeria
Businesses in Nigeria are conducted using several platforms. such as
1. Sole proprietorship
2. Partnership business
3. Company
4. Free Trade Zones (FTZ)


Sole Proprietorship
This is a kind of business owned exclusively by one individual, in this form of business platform; there is no legal distinction between the
owner and the business. The owner is entitled to all profits and responsible for all business debt, loses and liability.

Advantages of sole proprietorship
1. The process of registration is generally uncomplicated
2. It allows the business man the opportunity to own the name of the business as an intellectual property
3. It provides competitive leverage for the business man
4. Sole propretors are the sole owners of their business and do not split profits with other owners

Disadvantages
1. The owner carries the financial responsibility for everything (debts, losses etc)
2. Due to the owner carring all the responsibility, they are susceptible to wearing out (they are the manager, accountant e.t.c)
3. Raising capital from outside sources is a difficult task
4. In charge of every aspect despite having limited knowledge or experience in alot of other areas
5. The success of most sole proprietorships is closely tied to the owner, the business is unable to survive if the owner falls sick or dies.


Partnership Business

The partnership law of each state provides direction for the operation of operation of partnership business. The draft partnership law was
prepared by the Law Reform Commission in 1990. The operation of this form of business is still dictated by each state of the federation

Forms of Patnership
There are two(2) types
- General Partnership
- Limited Partnership

General Partnership
Three(3) essential elements to a general partnership:
1. Joint ownership of the Business
2. Sharing of profits and losses, and
3. Equal right in managing the business

Limited Partnership
In a limited partnership there is one general partner and then one or more limited partners. The general partner is responsible for manageing
the business while the limited partner contributes only assets

--------------
Advantages of General Partnership:
1. Partnership Buisness do not have to pay income tax
2. Easy to establish.
3. Increased ability to raise funds
4. More Knowledge, skills, and contacts (from owners)
5. Improved management with more than one owner

Disadvantages of a General Partnership:
1. Partners are jointly and severally liable for the actions of other partnership obligations including contracts, torts, breaches of trust. Read more.
2. Each partner is individually responsible for the debts and obligations of the business
3. A partner cannot transfer interest in the business without the unanimous consent of other partners
4. Partnership can potentially be unstable, in a case where a partner wants to withdraw from the business or dies

--------------
Advantages of a Limited Partnership:
1. The limited partner is only responsible for the amount of capital he/she contributes to the business
2. Easier to attract investors
3. Profits and losses pass through the business to the partners, who are taxed on their own personal income tax returns
4. Limited partners get to share in the profits and losses without having to prticipate in managing the buisness

Disadvantages of a Limited Partnership:
1. General partner is personally responsible for the debts
2. if the limited partner becomes active in the business, they may have general-partner personal responsibilities

--------------

Registered Companies
The Companies and Allied Matters Act provides the entrepreneurs with the opportunity to register three broad category of companies for the
purpose of carrying out profitable business
1. A company limited by shares
2. A company limited by guarantee
3. An unlimited company

Private Companies (LTD)
A private company is a company which is stated in its memorandum and articles of association to be a private company. It must by its article
restrict the transfer of shares. It must have nothing less than 2 members and nothing more than 50 members. Any company other than a private
company can be a public company
The Different types of Companys that are identified under the Act:
a. Public Company Limited by shares
b. Private Company Limited by shares
c. Public Company Limited by guarantee
d. Private Company Limited by guarantee
e. Public Unlimited Company
f. Private Unlimited Company

Requirements for registration of a company shall include the following:
1. Evidence of approval of name
2. Duly completed set of incorporation forms
3. Duly stamped Memorandum and Articles of Association
4. Evidence of consent letter (where applicable)
5. Proficiency certificate (where applicable)
6. Residence permit in case of resident foreigners
e.t.c.

Formation of Companies
Right to Form a Company

Persons who are not allowed to form a company
1. A person who is less than 18 years of age
2. A person who is of unsound mind
3. An undercharged bankrupt
4. A person disqualified under S.254 of the Act from being a director of a company (i.e fraudulent persons)
5. A corporate body in liquidation

Choice of Name

Once two or more persons have agreed to form a company, the first step for them is to choose a name for the company. Normally two(2) names 
are chosen. The preferred name and the alternative name. The name may be the individuals' personal names or a combination of names of the 
promoters or any name of there choice. 
It is advisable to first search for availability of the name using the directory of registered companies published by the ________________?
Ans: Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC),

Prohibited and Restricted Names
Promoters of a company are free to choose any names for their companies, BUT there are some certain names that are prohibited from using

No company shall be registered by a name which:
i. That already exists or is identical to an existing company
ii. Contains the word "chambers of commerce" unless it is a company limited by guarantee
iii. Is capable of misleading as to the true nature or extent of its activities
iv. Is offensive, undesirable or not supported by public policy
v. Would violate any existing trademark or business name unless granted consent from the owner of the trademark or business

Restricted Names
1. Federal,
   National, 
   Regional or State Government
2. Municipal or Chartered
3. Co-operative or Building Society
4. Group or Holding
5. Any word suggesting temporary business arrangement



Free Trade Zones (FTZ)
The Free Trade Zones are designed to attract foreign direct investment(FDI). There are presently 31 FTZs with 14 operational and 17 under
construction as at April 2015.
Some Available FTZs are:
Calabar Free Zone
kANO Free Zone
Lekki Free Zone
Tinapa Free Zone
Oloka Free Zone
Onne Oil and Gas Export Free Zone

Foreign investors can setup buisness directly in FTZ without necessarily incorporating the company. Registered companies can also register
seperately for a FTZ entity in order to enjoy the benefits of 100% capital and profit, exemption from all taxes


Compliance Requirements for Business operation
1. Companies and Allied Matter Act
2. The Company and Income Tax Act
3. Capital Gains Tax
4. Value-Added Tax Act
5. Labour Law
6. Trade Disputes
7. Intellectual Property (IP) Protection

EXAM QUESTION TIP: Discuss all 7 requirements for business operation


1. Companies and Allied Matter Act
The submission of Annual report for both private and public company is mandatory and compulsory. This is to be submitted after the first
12 months of operation. There are provisions for 3 months extension after the end of your 12 months period. Failure to file annual returns
attracts penalty. If a business fails to file annual returns for over 3 consecutive years the company is removed from the register of
companies

spin-off: Annual report is basically sending a document of all the activities of the company in the past 12 months

2. The Company and Income Tax Act
This Act allows companies to be taxed each year of assessment at a specific rate on the companies profits. Companies Income Tax is chargeable
at a rate of 30% of a company's profits. But Newly registered companies on the other hand have up to 18 months after registration, no later
than 6months after the end of the first accounting period, to file tax returns. The rate of withholding taxes to be deducted at sources are
between 5% and 10%

3. Capital Gains Tax
The capital Gains Tax Act regulates capital gains tax in Nigeria.

What is Capital Gain: the amount by which the selling price of an asset exceeds the purchase price; the gain realized when the asset is sold 
is the capital gain(** Read the whole line again to grab)
e.g i bought a nike shoe 40k and sold it 50k. my capital gain here is 10k

Capital Gain tax is chargeble on all forms of property, whether in Nigeria or outside Nigeria. The rate of capital gains tax is 10%. But
capital gains tax is not chargeable on gains gotten from acquiring the shares of a company that increases

Organizations exempted from paying capital gains:
- Ecclesiastical(means associated with a church), charitable or educational institutions;
- Any statutory or registered friendly society;
- Any cooperative society under the cooperative societies law of any state;
- Any trade union registered under the Trade Unions Act; and 
- Local government councils

4. Value-Added Tax Act
This Act requires companies to pay taxes on goods and services which are consumed by individuals, corporate organizations and others.
Value added tax is charged at 5% for all except a select few

5. Labour Law
This Act governs the labour sector in Nigeria. This act is limited to workers only - not administrators, executives or professionals But 
instead to junior level workers performing manual labour or clerical duties (religious duties)
...

6. Trade Disputes
This Act is in charge of regulating the settlement of trade disputes and makes it unlawful for any person to commence an action that brings
about a trade dispute.

Employees safety in the workplace: The Factories Act and the Employees' Compensation Act (ECA) seeks to protect employees working in potentially
harzadous conditions and to regulate the payment of compensations to employees who are injured in the course of their employment.

The Factories Act requires factories whose employees are exposed to occupational hazards to be registered and also provides regulations for
the safety of workers, as well as imposing penalties for any breaches of the regulations.

what is ECA?
Ans: Employees Compensation Act

7. Intellectual Property (IP) Protection
Note: This IP does not mean Internet Protocol 😜

The Nigerial legal system affords protection to Intellectual Property rights in the following categories
1. Copyright
2. Trademark and
3. Patents


1. Copyright
A copyright is a legal right that grants the creator of an original work exclusive right to its use and distribution, usually for a limited
time(before you are demanded to renew the copyright).
Who is the body charged with the enforcement and protection of copyright in Nigeria?
Ans: Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC)

The ownership of copyright is vested in the creator of a copyright work, usually referred to as the ________ of the work.
Ans: "author"

A person can obtain the right by transfer or other legal means and become the owner of the copyright. Yes or No?
Ans: Yes

The Scope of Copyright Protection
1. Literary works
2. Musical works
3. Artistic works
4. Cinematograph works
5. Sound recording and
6. Broadcasts

For it to be eligible for coppyright protection, the work must be sufficiently original and must be in a form which is expressed e.g. in 
writing, a painting, a musical recording etc. You can't have copyright protection over something in your head which has not been expressed

Process for registering a copyright
You can register a copyright with the _______?
Ans: NCC
by submitting a completed registration form, along with two (2) copies of the work, and evidence of payment of the prescribed fee. Registration
can be done online or physically at the NCC office


2. Trademark
A trademark is a word, phrase, symbol or design, or a combination of words, phrases, symbols or designs, that identifies and distinguishes the
source of the goods of one party from those of others.
Once a trademark is registered, it enables the trademark owner to amongst other things- take legal action against anyone who uses the 
registered mark without permission, sell or give license to the registered trademark(to make money), and allows owners to legally put the
® symbol next to the brand to show ownership and warn others against using it

which legislation, governs the registration of trademarks?
Ans: The Trade Marks Act

which government agencies are in charge of the registration?
Ans: Trademarks
     Patents and Designs Registry
     Commercial Law Department
     Federal Ministry of Industry
     Trade and Investment

Eligible item for trademark registration
1. Device, brand, heading, label, ticket, name, signature, word, letter, numeral, or any combination thereof;

For it to be eligible for registration it must contain atleast one(1) of the below
1. The name of a company, individual, or firm, represented in a special or particular manner;
2. The signature of the applicant for registration or some predecessor in his business
3. An invented word or invented words;
4. Any other distinctive mark

Importance of Registering a Trademark
In order to have exclusive use of your trademark, it is important u register it. Unlike copyright, with trademark you don't have
automatic protection given to the owner. Not registering a trademark would mean someone else could use it without permission from you

Process of Registering a Trademark
1. Availability Search: You conduct a search to see if there are registered marks that are similar to yours
2. Trademark Application: If there is no similar mark, you may apply for registration. if your mark is deemed registerable the 
   registry issues a Letter of Acceptance as an approval. After that the mark is advertised in the Trademarks journal published by
   a Trademarks Office
3. Application for Certificate: Once the proposed mark has been advertised, an interested party may oppose the registration within
   2 months of the advertised journal. If the mark is not opposed within 2 months you may then apply to the Registrar for a 
   Trademark Certificate

A trademark is valid for an initial period of 7 years and then for further renewable in 14-year periods


Patent

What is a Patent: A patent is an exclusive right granted for an invention, which is a product or a process that provides a new way
of doing something, or offers a new technical solution to a problem
A patent basically grants the inventor a temporary but exclusive monopoly of the commercial exploitation of that invention. It gives
the inventor the right to exclude others from making, using, or selling that particular invention

The legislation that governs the grant of patents is the ________________?
Ans: Patents and Designs Act

The Government agencies that grants patents are:
1. Trademarks,
2. Patents and Designs Registry,
3. Commercial Law Department,
4. Federal Ministry Of Industry,
5. Trade And Investment

Eligibility for Patent Registration
1. Must be new
2. Must have an inventive step that is not obvious to anyone
3. Must be capable of being made and used
4. Must not be against public policy or morality

Need to register a Patent








































