EPS 228

4a. Feasibility study is an evaluation or analysis of the potential impact of a proposed project

 b. Market Environment: Who are the people you are selling to, can they afford what you are selling
    Technical and Operation requirements: What are the equipments and human resources required for the business
    Financial Projection: What are the expenses and income of the business, when will the business become profitable
    Economic contribution: How will your business help and contribute to the community, society or economy

 c. The feasibility report is the foundation for writing business plans, feasibility report and business plans are often believed
    to mean the same thing even though they have some differences. After a feasibility study has been done and we have a report, 
    using the guidelines stated in the feasibility report we can then write out the business plan

 d. executive summary
    company description
    financial projection
    financial analysis
    Objective statements
    Marketing and sales plan
    Products and Services
    Business and Management structure

 e. people who run a business without registering have a window period of 28 days to do so

 f. the government is trying to boast the Nigerian economy

 g. CAMA - The Companies Allied Matters Act
    NOTAP - The National Office of Technology Aquisition and Promotion Act
    The Companies Income Tax Act 
    Capital Gains Tax Act

 h. 7 Regulatory bodies
 CBN - Central Bank of Nigeria
 SEC - Security and Exchange Commission
 NAFDAC - Nigerian Agency for Food Drug and Cosmetics
 NCC - Nigerian Communications Commission
 SON - Standards Organization of Nigeria
 CPC - Consumers Protection Council
 NOTAP - National Office of Technology Acquisition and Promotion

 i. The corporate affairs commission is the agency of government charge with regulation and supervision of the formation,
    incorporation, registration and management of companies, businesses and incorporated trustees

 j. CAC was established under the CAMA 1990

 k. Corporate Affairs Commission

 l. job of the CAC
    1. Regulation and supervision of the formation, incorportation, registration and management of companies, businesses and incorporated trustees
    2. Registration of changes, ammendments or alterations
    3. Repository for statutory records of companies, business and incorporated trusties
    4. searches
    5. Issuance of certified original certificates
    6. Enforcement of compliance of companies

 m. forms of investment
    1. sole proprietorship
    2. partnership business
    3. company
    4. free trade zone (ftz)

 n. 
 {
 1. Sole Proprietorsip: In this kind of business the business is owned exclusively by an individual, there is no legal distinction between the individual and the business. 
 2. Partnership Business: the partnership law of each state provides directions for operation of partnership business
    There are two(2) forms of partnership business
    - general
    - limited
 
    3 essential elements to general partnership
    - joint ownership
    - joint management and involvement of business
    - sharing profits and losses

    what happens in limited partnership
    In limited partnership there is one general partner while the others are limited, the manageing of the business is exclusive to the general partner

 3. Registered Company: CAMA provide entrepreneurs with an opportunity to register their companies in three broad categories
    Namely
    - A company limited by shares
    - A company limited by gurantee
    - An Unlimited company

 4. Free Trad Zones: The free trade zones are designed to attract FDI

 }

 o. A Private company is one that has stated in its memorandum and articles of association to be a private company

 p. from 2 to 50 members

 q. A public company is any company that is not private

 r. public company limited by shares
    private company limited by shares

    public company limited by guarantee
    private company limited by guarantee

    public unlimited company
    private unlimited company

 s. Evidence of approval of name
    Duly completed set of incorporation forms
    Duly stamped memorandum and articles of association
    Evidence of consent letter
    Profficiency certificate
    Residence permit in case of resident foreigners

 t. A person under the age of 18
    A person who has unsound mind
    A corporate body in liquidation
    A person disqualified under the S.254 act from being the director of a company
    An undercharged bankrupt

 
 Choice of Name
 a. Once two or more persons have agreed to form a company, the first step is to agree on a name for the company. They usually come up
    with two(2) names. The preferred name and the alternate name. The name may be the individuals personal names or the promoters 

 b. contains the word "chambers of commerce"
    already existing
    capable of misleading
    offensive or against public policy
    violates existing trademark or business name

 c. Federal, National, Regional
    Municipal or chartered
    co-operative or building society
    Group or Holding
    Any word that suggests temporary business arrangement

 d. Clabar
    Kano
    Lekki
    Tinapa
    Oloka
    Onne Oil and Gas Export

 e. The Companies Allied Matters Act
    The Company and Income Tax
    Value-Added tax
    Capital Gains Tax
    Labour Law
    Trade disputes
    Intellectual Property Protection

 f. 
 {
   Done
 }
  
 g. Protection of IP rights come in 3 categories
    - Copyright
    - Trademark
    - Patent

 g1. Copyright is a legal right that grants the creator of an original work exclusive rights to the use and distribution, it is usually
     for a limited time period

 g2. NCC - Nigerian Copyright Commission

 g3. Yes

 g4. Literary work
     Artistic work
     Musical Work
     Sound Work
     Cinematograph Work
     Broadcasts

 g5. You can't have copyright protection of something that hasn't been expressed and is only in your head. It needs to be expressed
     in either writing, painting, musical recording e.t.c..l

 g6. How can one register a copyright?
 Ans: By submitting a complete registration form and two(2) copies of the work and evidence of payment of the prescribed fee. it can be done online or offline


 h. A trademark is word, phrase, symbol or design or a combination of words, phrases, symbols or designs that distinguishes the source of one goods from that of another

 h1. The Trade Marks Act

 h2. Trademarks
     Patents and Design Registery
     Trade and Investment
     Commercial law department
     Federal Ministry of Industry

 h3. device, brand, heading, label, ticket, logo, letter
 
 














    

    