THEORY
1a. Define Entrepreneurship? (tip: End of module 1)
 b. Who is an Entrepreneur?
 b. List 10 characteristics of an entrepreneur and explain atleast 5?

2. Discuss Entrepreneurship in Nigeria(Igbo, Hausa, Yoruba)? (page 8)

3. Forms of Business
-  Sole proprietorship

4. List all 5 contributors to the theory of entrepreneurship




THEORY A
1) Discuss the different perspective put forward by various schools of entrepreneurial thought

2) a) Discuss the roles of entrepreneurship to economic development in Nigeria
   b) Discuss 5 types of business opportunities available in Nigeria

3) a) Define Entrepreneurial Finance
   b) Discuss 5 sources of Entrepreneurial Finance

4) a) Discuss the services offered by Corporate Affairs Commision
   b) Discuss the characteristics of a business environment


ANSWERS
1. Theories of Entrepreneurship

The various school of entrepreneural thought include:
1. The Great Persons School of Thought (Garfield, 1986)
2. The Classical     School of Thought (Alois Schumpeter, 1934)
3. Leadership        School of Thought (Shapero, A., 1984)
4. Management Skills School of Thought (Peter Ferdinand Drucker, 1985)
5. Intrapreneurship  School of Thought (Gifford Pinchot, 1985)


1a. Discus The Great Person School of Thought
    This theory leans heavily on Max Weber who associates entreprenuership with charismatic leadership. This theory views entrepreneurs
    as specialist in communication, abilitiy to impose rules on others, has strong drive for success, independence, persistence.

 b. Discuss The Psychodynamic School of Thought
    This theory is the product of Freud's psychoanalytic theory of personality, which considers individuals as having instinctive
    drives. This Theory is based on 3 premises, 
    - that most behaviour is goal-directed and caused by a force within;
    - that much behavior originates from the unconscious mind; and 
    - that earlier childhood experiences are crucial in the developent of personality

 c. Discuss The Classical School of Thought
    According to Tende (2011), Entrepreneurship can also be conceived as "alertness" to profit opportunities. Availability of profit
    opportunities stimulate entrepreneurship. To Emmanuel (2013), linking the ideological factor with the study of entrepreneurship,
    a person's environment is the major motivating factor for entrepreneurship and that ideas, traits and motives are not enough

 d. Discuss The Management School of Thought
    This School of thought believes that entrepreneurs cannot only be born but can be made (taught). Accoding to Dandago and 
    Muhammad (2014), this school deals with technical aspect of management and believes that entrepreneurhip can be developed and
    trained. Entrepreneurship educators have evolved beyond the myth that entrepreneurs are born, not made

 e. Discuss The Leadership School of Thought
    Tende (2011) posits that the leadership theory of entrepreneurship is a non-technical side of the management theory, which 
    suggests that the entrepreneur needs to be skillful in getting others to "join the cause". An effective leader must be a people
    manager who is able to motivate, direct and lead people

 f. Discuss Intrapreneurship  School of Thought
    According toTende (2011), the this theory evolved as a response to lack of innovativeness and competitiveness within 
    organizations. Intrapreneurs want to act as entrepreneurs and implement their ideas without themselves becoming owners

---------
2a
---------
3a. Entrepreneurial Financing is the study of value and resource allocations to new ventures