Exam Prep Answers 2


4a. Feasibility study is an evaluation or analysis of the potential impact of a proposed project
 b. Market Environment: who is your target market? Is your projected business going to make gain
    Technical and Operational requirements: What are the equipments and human resources needed for this job?
    Financial Projection: What are the expenses and income?. How long will it take to break even?
    Economic Contribution: How is your business contributing to the community, society or economy

 c. The foundation for writing a business plan is the feasibility report. It is difficult to write a busiess plan without it and not advised. The
    business plan is the icing on the cake and it simply focuses on the events stated in the feasibility report and how it can be carried out in the given timeframe

 d. Components of a business plan:
    Executive Summary
    Marketting and Sales plan
    Business and management structures
    Product and services
    business financial analysis
    Financial Projection
    Company Description
    Objective statement

 e. 28days
 f. Because the Nigerian government is trying to boast the Nigerian economy
 g. Laws governing corporate business operations
    CAMA
    NOTAP
    The companies Income (Ammendment) Tax Act
    Capital Gains Tax Act
 
 h. 7 regulatory bodies
    CBN - Central Bank of Nigeria
    SEC - Security and Exchange Commision
    NAFDAC - National Agency for Food Drug and Cosmetics
    NOTAP - National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion
    NCC - Nigerian Communication Commission
    SON - Standards Organization of Nigeria
    CPC - Consumer Protection Council

 i. Role of CAC:
    The role of the corporate affairs commission is to regulate and supervise the formation, incorportation, registration and management of companies, business names or incorporated trustees

 l. The regulation and supervision of the formation, incorporation, registration and management of companies, business names and incorporated trustees
    Searches
    Registration of changes, ammendments and altercations to a particular company, business name and incorporated trustees
    Repository of statutory records of Companies, Business Names and Incorporated Trustees
    Issuance of certified true copies certificates
    Enforcement pertaining to the complaince of companies, business names and incorporated trustees

 k. Corporate Affairs Commission

 j. CAC was established under the Companies Allied Matters Act in 1990

 m. Sole Proprietorship
    Partnership Business (2 forms of this: General and Limited)
    Companies (3 brod categories)
    Free Trade Zones

 n.
 {
    1. Sole Proprietorship: This kind of business is exclusively owned by one individual. There is no legal distinction between the owner and the business.
                         The owner is entitled to all the profits and responsible for all the debts, loses and liabilities
    2. Partnership Business: In this kind of business there are more than one legal owners to the business and the partnership law is set by the state and directs
                          the operation of partnership businesses
       There are 2 forms of Partnership Business
       - General and;
       - Limited
    3. Registered Company: The CAMA provides entrepreneurs with the opportunity to register there companies in 3 broad categories
       Namely:
       - A Company limited by shares
       - A Company limited by gurantee
       - An Unlimited Company     
    
    4. Free Trade Zones(FTZ): The Free Trade Zone is designed to attract foreign direct investment

 
 o. A private company is one that has stated in its memorandum or articles of association that it is a private company. It must by its
    article restrict the transfer of shares

 p. 2 to 50 members

 q. A public company is any company that is not a private company

 r. public company limited by shares
    private company limited by shares
    public company limited by guarantee
    private company limited by guarantee
    public unlimited companies
    private unlimited companies

 s. Evidence of approval of name
    Duly completed set of incorporation forms
    Duly stamped memorandum and articles of association
    Residence permit in the case of resident foriegners
    Evidence of consent letter (where applicable)
    Proficiency certificate (where applicable)

 t. A person under the age of 18
    A person who has an unsound mind
    A Corporate body in liquidation
    An undercharged bankrupt
    A person disqualified under the Act S.154 from being the director of a company (fraudulent person)














