CMP 416 EXAM PREP
Best Practice: Study using a big screen device. Be it a laptop or a tablet









--------------------------------------------------------------








PDF 1
Introduction to the Law
     

1a. What are Laws?
ans: "Laws" are rules that help society run smoothly

b. What is common law?
ans: it is the body of law created by judges and centralized 
     courts.

c. Common law relies on _______?
ans: Precedents (and past decisions)

d. Why is common law consistent?
ans: Because judges follow precedents

e. What year was it ruled that a man can be guilty of raping his 
   wife, and who ruled this?
ans: 1992, by the House of Lords

e1. How many years of precedents where overturned by the ruling 
    of the above law?
ans: 250 years

f. During what time were the Statute Law enacted (made into law)?
ans: During the industrial revolution

g. What are Statutes?
ans: Statutes are laws formally created by Parliament (it can 
     override common law)

g1. Statute Law is also known as _________?
ans: Legislation

h. What is Case Law?
ans: it refers to the application of precedents in legal 
     decisions

i. English Law is divided into 2 parts. Name them?
ans: Criminal and Civil law

i1. Explain Criminal law?
ans: Criminal law deals with actions harmful to society, aiming 
     to punish offenders. 
     Examples include murder and theft. Criminal cases are prosecuted by the Crown and must be proven "beyond reasonable doubt."

i2. Explain Civil Law?
ans: Civil law handles disputes between individuals or 
     organizations, focusing on compensation rather than 
     punishment. Cases are decided based on the "balance of 
     probabilities." Civil law includes contract law, torts, 
     family law, and property law.

i3. List 3 Countries that are influenced by English Law?
ans: - USA
     - Australia
     - New Zealand

i4. List countries that follow systems influenced by Roman Law?
ans: - Germany
     - Scotland

j. What is Computer Law?
ans: These are laws that addresses crimes involving computers

j1. Give some examples of Computer Laws?
ans: - Hacking
     - Creating viruses
     - Phishing
     - Packet sniffing
     - Social Engineering
     etc.

k. What does Donal Gotterbarn argue?
ans: He argues that computer ethics should focus on professional 
     conduct and decision-making in the development of computer 
     artifacts

l. What year saw rapid growth in computer use and the need for 
   new laws since old laws often couldn't address 
   computer-related crimes adequately
ans: 1980's

m. There are several laws that address Computer-related issues. 
   List 3?
ans: - Computer Misuse Act 1990: Covers hacking, using computers 
       to commit crimes, and unauthorized modifications.
     - Data Protection Act 1998: Governs personal data handling.
     - Intellectual Property Law: Includes copyright, patents, 
       and trade secrets.

Contract and Liability
n. What are Contracts?
ans: Contracts are legally binding agreements between 2 parties, 
     enforced by the law (Breaching them can lead to lawsuits)

o. What is a Legal Liability?
ans: it means being responsible for damage or loss, (it is found 
     in various law branches like criminal law and torts)









--------------------------------------------------------------








PDF 2
The Computer Misuse Act 1990 (CMA)



2a. Before _________, the courts struggled to address crimes 
    involving technology
ans: The Computer Misuse Act 1990

b. What are the 2 key cases?
ans: - Cox v Riley (1986)
     - R v Gold & Schifreen (1988)

b1. Discuss the 1st case?
ans: Cox v Riley (1986)
     - Riley, a fired employee, erased programs on a saw's 
       control card, making it useless.
     - He was charged with criminal damage.
     - Riley argued that a computer program is intangible and 
       can't be damaged.
     - The court upheld his conviction, stating that the saw was 
       damaged as it required reprogramming.

b2. Discuss the 2nd case?
ans: R v Gold & Schifreen (1988)
     - Journalists hacked into British Telecom’s Prestel system 
       to show security flaws.
     - Charged under the Forgery and Counterfeiting Act for 
       using a "false instrument" (password).
     - Convictions were overturned because the passwords were 
       not considered "recorded or stored."
     - Highlighted the need for new legislation to address 
       computer crimes.

c. What was the Computer Misuse Act (CMA) based on?
ans: The Act was based on a Law Commission review. it was aimed 
     to address unauthorized access and modification of data.

d. List some of the motivations of Hacking?
ans: - Thrill
     - Challenge
     - Proving Skills
     - Criminal acts
     - Stealing information

e. Some view hackers as helpful for exposing security flaws, 
   while others see them as a __________
ans: nuisance or worse

f. Is there anything such as Harmless Hacking?
ans: Even "innocent" hacking can cause accidental damage or 
     leave systems vulnerable.

g. List the 3 Sections to the Computer Misuse Act 1990 (CMA)?
ans: 1. Section 1: Basic Hacking Offense
        - Unauthorized access to computer programs or data is 
          illegal.
     2. Section 2: Ulterior Intent Offense
        - Using computer access to commit another crime is 
          illegal.
     3. Section 3: Unauthorised Modification Offense
        - Unauthorized changes to computer data or programs are 
          illegal.

h. What are some Reference cases under the CMA?
ans: 1. Attorney-General's Reference Case No 1 of 1991
        - Clarified that unauthorized access to a single 
          computer is an offense.     

     2. R v Paul Bedworth
        - Teenager hacked into multiple computers. Although 
          acquitted due to claimed addiction, it raised 
          questions about the need to prove intent.

i. What are the Changes and Challenges to the CMA (1990)?
ans: - The Act is becoming outdated due to new crimes like 
       DOS (denial of service) attacks.
     - The Police and Justice Bill 2006 proposes updates:
       - Section 35: Increases penalties for unauthorized access.
       - Section 36: Includes DOS attacks under unauthorized acts
       - Section 37: Criminalizes making or supplying tools for 
                     hacking.









--------------------------------------------------------------








PDF 3
Privacy and Data Protection



3a. What is Information Privacy?
ans: it is control over personal data

b. Privacy is seen as a _________?
ans: Basic human need and right

c. Historically, English law did not recognize a ___________?
an: right to privacy

d. List some of the concerns to Information Privacy?
ans: - Collection: Excessive data collection.
     - Unauthorized Secondary Use: Data used for purposes other 
               than intended.
     - Errors: Inaccurate data leading to problems.
     - Improper Access: Unauthorized access to personal data.

e. List 5 types of Personal Information?
ans: - Bank details
     - purchasing history
     - medical records
     - credit card information
     - survey data
     - police records
     - etc.

f. List 4 Consequences of Data Misuse?
ans: - Over-collection can lead to misuse.
     - Unauthorized secondary use increases junk mail.
     - Errors can lead to denial of credit or loans.
     - Improper access can result in fraud or identity theft.

g. List 3 Rights to Information Privacy in Law?
ans: - Human Rights Act 1998: 
         (Protects private and family life)
     - Universal Declaration of Human Rights: 
         (Offers additional privacy protection)
     - Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000: 
         (Can undermine privacy rights)

h. What are RFID Tags?
ans: They are tags that can track objects and people (raising 
     privacy concerns)

i. List some use cases of the RFID tag?
ans: - The US Department of Defence is using RFID to trace 
       military supply shipments,
     - They are used by many shops to manage the supply chain

j. What are some scenarios that have shown concerns about the 
   potential impact the RFID tag has on a person's privacy
ans: - An Australian casino placed 80,000 RFID tags in employees 
       uniforms
     - Michelin tyres plans to put RFID into car tyres linked to 
       the VIN of the vehicle - this is good for tracking 
       thefts, but could also be used to track someone's 
       movements
     - An RFID tag is also to be placed in Euro notes - this 
       could be used to monitor the entire 'journey' of each 
       individual note!
     - Delegates at the Chinese Party Congress were required to 
       wear an RFID equipped badge at all times to track their 
       movements.

k. The Data Protection Acts?
ans: - 1984 Act: Introduced due to EU requirements, focusing on
       data protection.
     - 1995 EU Directive: Established privacy principles and 
       restricted data transfer to countries without adequate 
       protection.
     - 1998 Act: Enhanced data protection measures, including 
       data controller registration, data security, access 
       rights, and transfer restrictions.

l. Define the below?
   - Data Controller
   - Data Subject
   - Personal Data
ans: - Data Controller: Determines how personal data is processed
     - Data Subject: The individual the data is about
     - Personal Data: Identifiable information about a living 
                      individual

m. List 8 Principles of Data Protection?
ans: 1. Fair and lawful processing.
     2. Processed for limited purposes.
     3. Adequate, relevant, and not excessive.
     4. Accurate and up-to-date.
     5. Not kept longer than necessary.
     6. Processed in line with your rights.
     7. Secure.
     8. Not transferred without adequate protection.

n. Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 is divided into 3 
   parts. Name them?
ans: - Interception and access to communications data: 
         Allows monitoring of internet traffic.
     - Surveillance and covert human intelligence sources: 
         Regulates and keeps surveillance methods secret.
     - Encryption:   
         Demands decryption of data for security purposes.









--------------------------------------------------------------








PDF 4
Intellectual Property Law (1)



4a. What is Intellectual Property (IP)?
ans: IP is work resulting from human creativity, like art, 
     science, or literature.

b. What is Intellectual Property Rights (IPR)?
ans: it is a right that protects intangible property allowing 
     the owner to make money from it.

c. Why are information's valuable?
ans: - Information is unique as it can be repeatedly sold or 
       traded
     - Information does not need big warehouses for storage
     - Shipping tangible goods involves high shipping costs. 
       Shipping information is cheap.

d. Can information be stolen according to The Theft Act (1968)?
ans: - According to the Theft Act (1968), theft involves 
       permanently depriving someone of their property.
     - Information is intangible and cannot be stolen under this 
       act.

e. What is the Intellectual Property Law?
ans: It is a law that covers a number of different areas:
     - Copyright Law: Protects creative works.
     - Patent Law: For new inventions.
     - Law of Confidence: Protects trade secrets and business 
       know-how.
     - Trademarks: Protect brand names and logos.
     - Semiconductor Regulations: Protect chip designs.

f. Why do we have IPR?
ans: - Encourages creation and innovation by granting 
       exploitation rights.
     - Rewards creators for their efforts.

g. List 5 Justification for Copyright?
ans: - Incentive for creation and innovation.
     - Reward for creative effort.
     - Intellectual labor should be protected as property.
     - Prevents unjust enrichment.
     - "Thou shalt not steal."

h. List 6 Arguments Against Copyright?
ans: - Information isn't like other property.
     - Often benefits owners more than authors.
     - Can restrict creativity and innovation.
     - Creativity existed before copyright laws.
     - Usually only large organizations enforce it.
     - Hard to enforce in the digital age.

i. What is Copyleft?
ans: Copyleft is a method of using copyright to guarantee the 
     freedom to use, modify and redistribute a program and its 
     derivatives.

     The open source movement opposes traditional IP views,   
     advocating for free use and modification of software

i1. Give an example of a software that uses Copyleft?
ans: GNU/Linux is an example, promoting freedom to run, 
     replicate, modify, and distribute software.

j. Issues arise when linking to other sites using frames, 
  potentially causing _________ and _________?
ans: confusion about site ownership,
     bypassing legal notices.

k. List 7 Considerations for a New Digital Copyright Act?
ans: - Should there be a new copyright act or abolish it?
     - What materials should be covered?
     - Criteria for qualifying for copyright.
     - Duration of copyright.
     - Rights of copyright holders and users.
     - Remedies for copyright breaches.
     - Possible exceptions to copyright.









--------------------------------------------------------------







PDF 5
Intellectual Property Law (2)



5a. What are the Key Legislation?
ans: - Copyright Designs and Patents Act 1988 (CDPA): Covers 
       original literary, dramatic, musical works, and more. For 
       web designers, original literary works include computer 
       programs if they are "original."
     - Copyright and Rights in Databases Regulations 1997(CRDR): 
       Provides "Database Right" for substantial investment in 
       databases. Infringement occurs if someone extracts or 
       reuses significant parts of the database.

b. What does originality under CDPA mean?
ans: Originality under CDPA means the work must originate from 
     the author, not be copied, and show skill and judgment.

c. How long does the protection offered by copyright and 
   database rights last for?
ans: - Copyright: Lasts 70 years after the author's death (50 
       years for sound recordings and broadcasts).
     - Database Rights: Last 15 years from the year of 
       completion or public availability to the public.

     Computer generated works are protected for fifty years

d. How does someone qualify for copyright protection?
ans: If the author is a citizen or resident of the UK, then
     copyright is automatic, but it is good practice to put
     some sort of notice on the work, for example:
     - Copyright 2007 A.N. Other. All rights reserved.
     
     If you are not a UK-resident, take this opportunity to investigate the law of copyright in your own country

e. What is Authorship and Ownership?
ans: Authorship and ownership are distinct concepts in copyright 
     law
     1. Authorship - Moral Rights:
     The author, or creator, of a copyright work has moral rights over the work. These are:
     - Paternity Rights: Authors have the right to be identified 
       as the author of the work (but not for computer programs)
     - Integrity Rights: right to protect their work from 
       derogation.

     2. Ownership - Economic Rights
     The owner of the copyright has economic rights over the work
     
     Owners can sell, license, or transfer copyright. In employment, the employer usually owns the copyright unless agreed otherwise.

f. What are Rights and Infringements?
ans: - Rights: Owners can copy, distribute, perform, broadcast,  
       and adapt the work.
     - Infringements: Unauthorized acts like copying or 
       distributing the work without permission. Primary 
       infringement is a civil matter, while secondary 
       infringement can be criminal.

g. Computer Software and Infringements
ans: - Copying from the original disc to a new disc. This is an 
       infringement of copyright
     - Copying a computer program listing. This is an 
       infringement because the program is a literary work and 
       therefore copyrighted
     - "Look and Feel" cases involve both literal and 
       non-literal copying.

h. List the Updates made to CDPA?
ans: - Creative Commons (CC): Licenses allow artists to specify 
       how their work can be used, promoting creativity.
     - Copyright (Computer Programmes) Regulations 1992 (CCPR): 
       Allows making one backup copy of a program.
     - EU Copyright Directive 2001: Protects technological 
       measures and electronic rights management.









--------------------------------------------------------------







PDF 6
Liability and Contracts



6a. Liability is found in different branches of law. List all 3?
ans: - Criminal law
     - Law of tort (civil wrongs) e.g. defamation and negligence
     - Law of contract

b. The core idea of liability is that ________________
ans: individuals are responsible for their own actions and 
     omissions

c. There can be no liability without _______, meaning the act or 
   omission must have caused the loss or damage.
   (excluding loss or damage caused by a natural event)
ans: fault

d. What is Vicarious Liability?
ans: This is when someone is held responsible for the actions of 
     others, such as an employer for their employees' actions

e. What is the Law of Tort?
ans: A tort is a civil wrong that causes loss or damage

e1. What is the purpose of Tort Law?
ans: It is to compensate the plaintiff with money, called 
     "damages."

e2. List the 3 types of Torts?
ans: - Trespass:   Intentional invasion of personal or property 
                   rights
     - Defamation: Damage to someone's reputation through libel 
                   or slander
     - Negligence: Causing personal injury through careless acts 
                   or omissions
     - Loss resulting from false statements
     - Loss or damage caused by dangerous premises

f. R L Abel (1982) suggests a particular relationship between 
   capitalism and tort law?
ans: He suggests capitalism may lead to sacrificing safety (of 
     workers, consumers, those affected by environmental danger) for profit

g. Harris (1997) suggests?
ans: tort law assumes everything can be compensated financially.

h. What is Defamation?
ans: it involves injuring someone's reputation (or character) 
     through false statements. Such statements may be
     - Libellous: Written or recorded
     - Slander: Verbal or unrecorded

h1. The penalties for ____ are usually more severe than for ____?
ans: Libel, slander

h2. The penalties for ____ are usually less severe than for ____?
ans: Slander, Libel

i. Emails and text messages are increasingly considered 
   permanent publications, making them subject to ________ laws
ans: defamation

j. What does Blyth v Birmingham Waterworks Co (1856) define 
   Negligence to be?
ans: it is failing to do what a reasonable person would do, or 
     doing something a reasonable and prudent man would not do

k. A number of criteria exist which must be met in order to sue 
   for damages due to negligence. List all 3?
ans: - Duty of Care: Foreseeable risk of harm
     - Breach of Duty: Failure to meet that duty
     - Damage: Resulting harm or injury

l. What is Negligent Misstatement?
ans: This occurs when a careless statement causes someone to 
     suffer a loss. For example, a false character reference 
     that leads to damage.

m. For a negligence claim on Duty of Care, 3 components must 
   exist?
ans: - Foreseeability of Damage
     - Relationship or Proximity between defendant and plaintiff
     - Fairness in imposing duty

n. What are Contract?
ans: Contracts are legally binding agreements between parties 
     with obligations and rights

o. List the 4 essential elements that must be present to 
   constitute a Contract?
ans: - An Offer
     - An Acceptance (hence creating an agreement)
     - Intention to create legal relations
     - Consideration: Value exchanged

p. What are Exemption Clauses?
ans: These clauses attempt to limit liability, but legislation 
     like the Unfair Contract Terms Act (1977) restricts their 
     use, especially for death or personal injury.

q. Give an example?
ans: For example "The management accepts no responsibility for 
     loss or damage to guests' property howsoever caused".

r. Liability in software contracts is affected by. List 3?
ans: - By Negligent misstatement
     - By Consumer protection legislation
     - By Health and Safety legislation

r1. List Key legislation related to Liability in Software 
    Contracts?
ans: - Sale and Supply of Goods Act (1994)
     - Supply of Goods and Services Act (1982)
     - Consumer Protection Act (1987)
     - Unfair Contract Terms Act (1977)

s. Many workers spend extended periods of time working at a 
   keyboard. This may cause problems with the wrists and hands, known as _________?
ans: Repetitive Strain Injury (RSI)
















