1. A System is a group of interrelated components working together towards accomplishing
   a common goal by accepting input and producing output in an organized transformation
   process

b. done
c. it is the relationship between componenets
d. Subsystem is a subset of the system
e. the domain of the system


f. done

g. done

h. Information System is any continuation of people, hardware, software, communication
   networks and data resources that collects, transforms and distributes information
   in an organization

i. Input Data
   Processing of data into information
   output of information
   Storage of Data Resources
   Central of System preformance




2a. Data is a stream of raw facts representing events such as business transactions,
    simple observations e.t.c
    - easily structured
    - easily transfered
    - easily captured on machines

b.  Information is data endowed with relevance and purpose, useful to humans in dm
    - requires unit of processing
    - helpful in dm

c.  Knowledge is information that comes from the human mind and helps in guiding human
    behavior in the correct ways
    - difficult to structure
    - hard to capture by machines
    - hard to transfer


















LECTURE 2

1. Stakeholders

b. A Stakeholder is any person who is interested in an existing or a new information
   system. Technical or non-technical

c. System Owners
   System users
   System Designers
   System Builders
   System Analyst
   IT Vendors

d. Ethics is a personal character trait in which an individual understands the diff
   between `right` and `wrong` and acts accordingly

e. Let the users be involved
   Establish phases and activities
   Establish standards
   Use the problem solving approach
   Divide and conquer
   Design a system for growth and change
   Justify the system as capital investment
   Don't be afraid to cancel or revise scope

f. done

g. Thou shalt not. nailed it















Lecture 3

1. done

b. System Analysts facilitate the development of information systems and coputer
   applications by bridging the gap that exists between non-technical System Owners
   and Users and Technical System Designers and Builders

c. System Analysis is a problem solving technique that decomposes a system into 
   component pieces for the purpose of studying how well those components work and
   interact with each other to accomplish their purpose

e. System Design is a complementary problem solving technique that reassembles the
   component pieces of a system back into a complete system and hopefully and 
   improved one

f. System Analysis and Design (SAD) is the process of examining a business situation
   with the intent of improving it through better procedures and methods

g. System Analysis & Design

h. SDLC is an organizational process for developing and maintaining systems

i. Preliminary Study
   Feasibility Study
   Detailed System Study
   System Analysis 
   System Design
   Coding
   Testing
   Implementation
   Maintenance

j, k, 

l. It is a problem solving technique that decomposes a System into it's component
   pi. Nailed it

m. Nailed it

n. ...

o....

p. Identify the problem
   Analyze and Understand the Problem
   Identify solution requirements or expectations
   Identify alternate solutions and decide which course of action to take
   Design and implement the best solution
   Evaluate the result. if p is not solved return to line 1 & 2






2. True

b. Problems 
   Opportunity
   Directives

c. Trust Phase or Initial study or planning phase

d. Is the project worth looking at

e. Project scope
   Perceived problem
   Opportunities
   Directives that triggered the project

...

l. List problems, opportunities, directives that triggered the project
   Negotiate scope
   Access project worth
   Plan the Project
   Present the project and plan
   
m. 













Lecture 4

1. Don't try to fix it unless you understand it

b. This phase provides the analyst with more understanding of the problem, opportunity,
   and directives that triggered the project

c. - Is the problem really worth solving
   - Is the new System worth BUILDING

d. The Problem Phase is also known as the Study Phase

e. done

f. Study the problem domain
   Analyze problems and opportunities
   (Optioal) Analyze business process
   Establish System empowerment objectives
   Update project plan
   Present findings and recommendations


g. 





Lecture 5


1. These are specific methods for finding information on a system

b. Protect the Security & Privacy of any fact or data
   Do not discuss sensitive issues in public
   Do not be careless. Your notes and documents should be kept safe

c. An employees profile showing personal informations about them e.g salaries, 
   performance history, medical history

d. - Sampling Existing documentation, forms and databases
   - Research and Site Visits
   - Observation of the Work environment
   - Questionnaires
   - Interviews
   - Prototyping
















































