CMP 309 Exam Prep 

How To Study the Material

Tips: 
- Best to study using the github repo link
  https://github.com/danielchukwu/School-/tree/master/300Lvl/1st

- Use a laptop or device with a relatively big screen to study
- Glancing through the questions and answers may not cement the knowledge. 
  But answering them as you go through them on some book or paper repeatedly 
  definitely will





Lecture 7


System Design Phase

1a. What is the Information System Design Phase?
Ans: Information System design are those tasks that focus on the specification of a
     detailed computer-based solution - (Physical design)

b. What is Application architecture?
Ans: it describes the pattern and techniques used to design ... an application

Tasks 5.1

c. List all the tasks involved in Information System Design
Ans: 5.1 Application Architecture (defines the technologies to be used)
     5.2 Design the Systems Database
     5.3 Design the systems interface (Input Screen)
     5.4 Package design specification (to guide the programmer in implementation)
     5.5 Update project plan


System Construction / Implementation

d. What is System Construction?
Ans: It is the development, installation and testing of system components

e. What is System Implementation?
Ans: It is the delivery of that system into production (meaning day-to-day operations)

f. What is the purpose of this System Construction phase?
Ans: it is to develop and test a functional systems that fulfils business and design
     requirements and to also implement the interfaces between the new system and 
     the existing production systems

g. ________ is generally the major aspect of this phase?
Ans: Programming

h. Discuss the Tasks involved?
Ans: 6.1 Build and test network (if necessary)
         - in many cases new systems are built around existing networks - if so 
           skip this task else you must implement the network architecture
         - the task is performed by - network administrator; or a network designer
     6.2 Build and Test Databases
         - this is done by a database specialist
         - the input to this task are the database schemas specified during the design
         - final product, should be the populated database
     6.3 Install and Test New Software packages (if necessary)
         - this involves all the stakeholders
           There are 3 levels of testing
           a) Stub testing: 
                is the test performed on events or modules of the program. In other 
              words it is the testing of an isolated subset of the program.
           b) Unit or Program testing:
                is the testing of an entire program. In other words its a test where
              by all the events or modules that have been coded and stub tested for 
              a program are tested as an integrated unit
           c) Systems testing:
                Ensures that application programs written and tested in isolation
              work properly when they are integrated into the total program


i. Once the system test is completed and successful. What is next?
Ans: We can proceed to the implementation of the System






The Implementation Phase

2. What happens in the implementation phase?
Ans: here the new system is delivered into operations

b. What are the Tasks involved in this phase?
Ans: 7.1 Conduct System Test:
         - the input to this phase is the new system with observation from the 
           previous phase (if any)
     7.2 Prepare a Conversion Plan
         - once a successful system test has been completed, we can begin 
           preparations to place the new system into operation
         - the plan include => databases to be installed
         - end user to any and documentation
         - strategy for converting from the old system to the new system

         This is mostly done by the project manager

C. Methods of System Conversion plan may include the following. List all?
Ans: i) Abrupt cut-over
           the old system is terminated and the new system is placed into operations
           - this is a high-risk approach because their may still be major problems
             that won't be uncovered until the system has been in operations for at 
             least one business period

     ii) Parallel Conversion
           both the old and the new systems are operated for sometime period. This 
           ensures that all major problems in the new System gets solved before the
           old system is discarded.
           Advantage and disadvantage
           - This strategy minimizes the risk of major flaws in the new system 
           - Sadly, the cost of running the two systems concurrently may be high
           
     iii) Location Conversion
           when the same system would be used in numerous geo locations, it is 
           converted in one location first, when it is tested and trusted then it
           will be deployed to the other locations

     iv) Staged Conversion
           in this system conversion he new system is implemented in stages, 
           rather than all at once. Each version of the new system is converted as it is developed

d. The conversion plan includes the ___________?
Ans: System acceptance test plan
      
e. What is the System acceptance test plan?
Ans: it is the final opportunity for end users, management, and other stakeholders
     to accept or reject the system - this is done using real data

     Or 

     it is the final test performed by end users using real data. 

f. System acceptance plan addresses three levels of acceptance testing. Name them?
Ans: Verification testing
     Validation   testing
     Audit        testing

g. Explain the 3 levels of a acceptance testing?
Ans: Verification testing:
         runs the system on simulated environment using simulated data. 
         - The simulated test is primarily looking for errors and omissions 
           regarding end-user and design specifications that were specified in the 
           earlier phase but not fulfilled during construction
     Validation testing:
         runs the system in a live environment using real data. It is sometimes
         called beta testing
         - during this testing, a number of items are tested including
            - system performance (response time)
            - back up and recovery. etc.
     Audit testing
         it certifies that the system is free of errors and is ready to be placed
         into operation.
         








Lecture 8 (Lecturers Last Note)


Project Lifecycle (Software Development Method)

1. Each Project has a lifetime and during this lifetime it passes through different
   phases, these phases are called ______________?
Ans:  Project Life Cycle

b. What is Project Life Cycle?
Ans: it is a framework to manage any type of project, it provides guideline to 
     project managers for successful completion of projects

c. A Project Life Cycle consists of 4 phases. Name them?
Ans: Initiation
     Planning
     Execution
     Monitoring and control (used in some methodologies)
     Closing

d. What are the 2 approaches to Project Management LifeCycle?
Ans: 1. Predictive or Plan driven approach
          defined at the start of the project
     2. Adaptive or change driven approach
          developed over multiple iterations

e. The starting phase of a project is the __________?
Ans: Initiation Phase

Initiation Phase
e1. What are the questions that need to be answered in this phase?
ans: - Is this project possible?
     - Is this project feasible?
     - What resources will be required?
     - How much time will this project take?

e2. Wha are the main activities of this phase?
Ans: - Create business case
     - Create a feasibility study of the project
     - Create a project charter

e3. Explain the above terminologies?
Ans: A Business case:
       - provides justification for taking up the project
       - its a well structured document containing costs, risks and benefit
     Feasibility sudy:
       - it is the measure of how benefical and practical the development of a
         project would be to an organization
     Project Charter:
       - it is a document that contains all the necessary information about a
         project
         Informations such as:
         - Business vision & Mission
         - Project Goals & Benefits
         - List of Stakeholders
         - Project Scope
         - Project Deliverables
         - Project Budget & Resources
     Project Brief:
       - it contains all the information about the project


Planning Phase
f. Every project requires a detailed plan for its exectuion. True or False?
Ans: True

f1. What is a project plan?
Ans:  is a set of documents that will guide the entire project

f2. A Planning Phase includes?
Ans: - Statement of Work
     - Work breakdown structure
     - Scope Management
     - Schedule Management
     - Cost Management
     - Quality Management
     - Resource Management
     - Communication Management 
     - Risk Management
     - Stakeholder Management

    Explanation
     - Statement of Work: 
         its a document containing work agreement between two parties
     - Work breakdown structure:
         its the breaking down the total work into smaller componenets
     - Scope Management:
         it is the work included in the project. It makes sure everyone knows 
         what the aim of the project and what it includes
     - Schedule Management: 
         it is a process that refers to how the project manager manages his 
         schedule for a particular project. It includes the time allocated to the
         completion of each tasks
     - Cost Management:
         it is the process that is concerned with planning and controlling the 
         budget of the project
     - Quality Management:
         making sure the quality or value of the project meets the need of the '
         stakeholders
     - Resource Management
         focuses on how the project manager runs the project team. He needs to 
         understand what resources (people, equipment, facilities, funding) are 
         required to complete the project at hand
     - Communication Management
         it is what keeps all the team member on the same boat and it needs to 
         take hold between the project manager, team members and the stakeholders 
     - Risk Management
         the pm should conduct risk management and analyze & identify risks to later
         develop risk response plan
     - Stakeholder Management
         it is important to get the stakeholders invovled from the on set of the 
         project. Because they decide what changes are to be made to meet their
         requirements



Execution Phase
g. This is the most important phase in the Project Management Life cycle. 
   True or False?
Ans: True

g1. What happens in the execution phase?
Ans: it is when the project team begins to implement the plan and carry out the 
     tasks outlined in the planning phase. This is the phase where the project 
     team turns the project plan into action and work towards achieving the 
     project's objectives and deliverables.

g2. The Execution Phase includes?
Ans: - Project Deliverables
     - Status Review
     - Problem solving

    Explanation
     - Project Deliverables
         the pm makes sure all the deliverables are delivered without compromise in 
         the quality of the deliverables
     - Status Review
         daily stand up meeting the pm holds with the project team all to monitor 
         the projects progress
     - Problem solving
         managing the teams during shortcomings and solving their problems with 
         ease



Control & Monitoring Phase
h. What happens in the Control & Monitoring Phase?
Ans: it is the phase where the project manager and the project team actively 
     monitor the project's progress and performance. The goal of this phase is to 
     ensure that the project stays on track, and that any issues or problems that 
     arise are identified and addressed in a timely manner.

h1. The Control & Monitoring Phase includes?
Ans: - Quality Assurance
     - Cost Tracking
     - Project Performance
     - Projects Objectives and requirements

    Explanation
     - Quality Assurance
         teams are required to maintain certain quality standards with the 
         deliverables after elaborate meetings with the stakeholders
     - Cost Tracking
         the process of monitoring and measuring the costs incurred during the 
         project against the budgeted costs
     - Project Performance
         It includes monitoring and measuring of the project's progress in terms of 
         schedule, budget, quality, and scope. We can use SCRUM tools for this
     - Projects Objectives and requirements
         this are monitored to make sure that the project deliverables are up to 
         the mark and fulfil all the requirements set by the client



Closing Phase
i. What happens in the Closing Phase?
Ans: during this phase, the project manager ensures that all project objectives 
     have been met, that all project deliverables have been handed over to the 
     client, and that all project documentation has been completed. The project 
     manager also conducts a formal project closeout meeting, where all project 
     team members review the project's performance, document any lessons learned, 
     and identify areas for improvement for future projects.

i1. The Closing Phase includes?
Ans: - Project Performance
         the teams submit their deliverables and review it to see if they met the
         requirements. it is the most important phase
     - Retrospective Analysis
         the teams review their performance and look at the positives and negatives
         they had during the whole project. And discuss how to maximize the positives
         and how to minimize the negatives








