aCMP 309 EXAM PREP


Tip on how to study
This course is like a story. You don't need to know word for word what everything 
is, just try to understand it and tell it in your own understanding


Lecture 1
CONCEPT OF INFORMATION SYSTEM

1. What is a system?
Ans: A system is a group of interelated components working together toward a common
     goal by accepting inputs and producing outputs in an organized transformation
     process.

b. The term system was derived from the greek word 'systema' which means?
Ans: Organized relationship among functioning units or components


c. Draw a diagram of the Environment?
Ans: Lecturers Note page 2

d. What is a system structure?
Ans: its the relationship between components

e. What is a Subsystem?
Ans: subset of the system

f. What is Environment/boundary?
Ans: its the domain of the system

g. What is input and output?
Ans: Input:  what goes into the system
     Output: what goes out of the system

h. What is boundary?
Ans: A line which marks the limits of an area




ABSTRACT CONCEPT OF A SYSTEM

i. Draw an the diagram of the Abstract concept of a system?
Ans: Lecturers Note page 3


j. Draw a diagram of a Manufacturing System?
Ans: Lecturers Note page 4

k. What is Information System?
Ans: An Information System can be any organized continuation of people, hardware,
     software, communications network, and data resources that collects, transforms,
     and distributes information in an organization

     OR

     It is an arrangement of people, data, processes, information presentation and
     information technology that interacts to support and improve day-to-day 
     operations in a business as well as support the problem - solving and 
     decision-making needs of management and users

l. Draw a diagram of the components of an Information System?
Ans: Lecturers Note page 5

m. The Information System diagram implies that?
Ans: One cannot work without the other

n. What are the activities of the Information System?
Ans: - Input Data: 
           manual input by key, scanning etc
     - Processing of data into information: 
           calculate, sort, find, report etc
     - Output of Information (products):    
           report, display
     - Storage of Data Resources:           
           Database, data file, maintenance
     - Central of Systems Performance: 
           Audit




DATA, INFORMATION, KNOWLEDGE

2a. What is Data?
Ans: Streams of raw facts representing events such as business transactions, simple
     observations etc
     - easily structured
     - easily captured on machines
     - easily transfered, often quantified

b. What is Information?
Ans: Data endowed with relevance and purpose, useful to human beings in processes
     such as making decisions
     - requires unit of analysis/processing
     - it helps in decision making

c. What is Knowledge?
Ans: Information from the human mind which guides human behaviour in correct ways
     - Hard to structure
     - Difficultto capture on machine
     - Hard to transfer




















Lecture 2

INFORMATION SYSTEMS (Building)


1. Assuming you want to build an Information System, who and who will be part of 
   your team?
Ans: Stakeholders

b. Who are Stakeholders?
Ans: This is any person who has an interest in an existing or new Information System.
     They can be technical or non-technical

c. List the different types of Stakeholders in Information System Development?
Ans: 1. System Owners
     2. System Users
     3. System Designers
     4. System Builders
     5. System Analysts
     6. IT Vendors


Character & Ethics of a System Analyst

d. What is Ethics?
Ans: This is a personal character trait in which an individual understands the 
     difference between 'right' and 'wrong' and acts accordingly

An example code of conduct or ethics that some organizations use?
Ans: "I shall not use knowledge of a confidential nature to further my personal
      interests, nor shall i violate the privacy and confidentiality of information
      entrusted to me or to which I may gain access: 
      That I have an obligation to my employer whose trust i hold therefore, I
      shall endevour to discharge this obligation to the best of my ability, to 
      guard my employers interests and to advice him or her wisely and honestly"



e List the Principles of Successful Development?
Ans: 1. Let the  users be involved
     2. Use the problem solving approach
     3. Establish phases and activities
     4. Establish standards
     5. Justify system as capital Investments
     6. Don't be afraid to Cancel or Revise Scope
     7. Divide and Conquer
     8. Design a system for Growth and Change


f. Discuss each principle of Successful Development in your own understanding?
Ans: page 13 - 18 (Read and understand)
     



f. List THE TEN COMMANDMENTS (Ethics for System Analyst)?
Ans: 1. Thou shalt not use a computer to harm other people
     2. Thou shalt not interfere with other people's computer work
     3. ..   ..    ..  snoop around in other peoples computer files
     4. ..   ..    ..  use computers to steal
     5. ..   ..    ..  use computers to bear false witness
     6. ..   ..    ..  copy software for which you have not paid
     7. ..   ..    ..  use other peoples computer resources without authorization 
                       or proper compensation

     8. ..   ..    ..  appropriate other peoples intellectual output

     9. Thou shalt think about social consequences of the program you are writing 
        or the system you are designing

     10. Thou shalt always use a computer in ways that ensure consideration and 
         respect for your fellow humans.




















Lecture 3

1. Draw a diagram of the Information Building Block (The Big Picture)?
Ans: Lecturer's Note page 19

b. Explain all the different types of Stakeholders?
Ans: 1. System Owners:
           They pay for the system to be built and maintained. They own the system,
        put priorities for the system and determine policies for its use. In some
        cases, system owners may be, System Owners may also be System Users

     2. System Users:
           Actually use the System to perform or support the work to be completed.
        They define the systems requirements and performance expectations for the 
        system to be built. (Client)
    
     3. System Designers: 
           Design the System to meet the users requiremeent. In many cases these 
        technical specialists may also be System Builders, database programmers
        and Software Specialists.

     4. System Builders:
           Construct, test and deliver the System into operation.

     5. System Analysts:
           Facilitate the development & Information Systems and Computer applications
        by bridging the communications gap that exists between non-technical System
        Owners and Users and Technical System Designers and Builders.
     
     6. IT Vendors and Consultants:
           Sell hardware, software, Services to businesses for incorporation into
        their Information System

c. What is Systems Analysis?
Ans: A problem solving approach (or technique) that decomposes a system into 
     component pieces for the purpose of studying how well those component parts
     work and interact to accomplish their purpose.

d. What is System Design?
Ans: its a complementary problem-solving technique (to system analysis) that 
   re-assembles a System's component pieces back into a complete system. Hopefully
   an improved system.


f. What then is System Analysis & Design (SAD)?
Ans: it refers to the process of examining a business situation with the intent of
     improving it through better procedures and methods.

g. What does SAD stand for comrade?
Ans: Systems Analysis and Design

h. What is Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC)?
Ans: it is an organizational process of developing and maintaining systems.
     - it helps in establishing a asystem project plan

     OR

     * Its a framework that describes the activities performed at each stage in the
       Software development project

i. What are the Phases involved in SDLC?
Ans: 1. Preliminary Study
     2. Feasibility Study
     3. Detailed System Study
     4. System Analysis
     5. System designing
     6. Coding
     7. Testing
     8. Implementation
     9. Maintenance

j. 

k. What is Systems Analysis? 
Ans: refers to the process of examining a business situation with the intent of 
     improving it through better procedures

l. Systems Analysis can also defined as?
Ans: The study of a business problem domain to recommend improvements and specify 
     the business requirements for the solution.

m. What is Systems Design?
Ans: is the specification or construction of a technical, computer-based solution 
     for the business requirements identified in a systems analysis
     (Note: The design takes the form of a working prototype)

n. Who is a Systems Analyst?
Ans: a person who facilitates the development of information systems and computer
     applications

o. What does the Systems Analyst acutally do?
Ans: They study the problems and needs of our organization to determine how people,
     data, processes, communications, dnd information technology can best accomplish
     improvements for the business.

p. iS the system analyst a problem solver?
Ans: Yes

q. Systems analysts use some variation of probem-solving approach, which usually
   incorporates the following general steps. List them?
Ans: 1. Identify the problem
     2. Analyze and Understand the problem
     3. Identify solution requirements or expectations
     4. Identify alternative solutions and decide a course of action
     5. Design and Implement the "best" solution
     6. Evaluate the results. if the problem is not solved, return to Step 1 or 2
        as appropriate








A System Development Methodology(SDLC Activities)

Project Identification

1. Projects are basically initiated by users and owners of the system. True or False?
Ans: True

b. What are the 3 ways Projects can be Initiated?
Ans: - Problems: 
          are underrstable situations that prevent the organization from fully 
          achieving its purpose goals and objectives
          e.g 
           A business might identify that it is taking too long to fulfill customer 
          orders. A project would be initiated to achieve more responsible and 
          timely order fulfilment. *Problem might be real,csuspected or anticipated

     - Opportunity: 
          is a chance to improve the organization even in the absence of specific
          problem
          e.g
          Management is usually receptive of cost cutting ideas, even when costs 
          are not currenty considered a problem. Opportunistic improvement is the
          source of many of today's most interesting projects.
         
     - Directive:
          is a new requirement that's imposed by management, government on some
          external influence.
          e.g
          In a government agency, they may mandate that a new set of reports be 
          produced each quarter.
        
          Some directives may be technical
          e.g. Converting inputs from key input through keyboard to using barcodes


PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION PHASE
c. In a classic System Development process, the Preliminary Investigation phase 
   forms the ____________?
Ans: Trust Phase (alse called the `initial study`, `derivery phase` or `planning phase`)

d. The Preliminary Investigations assures the following question. Which is?
Ans: "Is the project worth looking at?"

e. What are the things the Preliminary Investigation must define to answer the 
   question "Is the project worth looking at?"?
Ans: - A scope of the project
     - Perceived problem
     - Opportunities
     - Directives that triggered the project

f. Assuming a project is worth looking at. What are the things that must be established?
Ans: A project plan,
     Interns of Scope *,
     Schedule,
     Resource requirements and 
     budget

g. This phase is concerned with the System Owners. They tend to be concerned with?
Ans: The big picture, not details. They also determin whether resources will be
     commited to the project

h. The deliverable of this phase is ____________?
Ans: A Project Charter

i. A project charter defines ___________?
Ans: The Project scope, plan, methodologies, standards e.t.c.

j. The Investigation phase is intended to be quick. True or False?
Ans: True

k. The investigation phase should not exceed __ or __ days for most projects?
Ans: 2 or 3

l. What are the Tasks involved?
Ans: 1.1 List problems, opportunities and directives
     1.2 Negotiate preliminary scope
     1.3 Access project worth
     1.4 Plan the project
     1.5 Present the Project and Plan


1.1 List problems, opportunities and directives

m. Discuss the 1st task?
Ans: 1. List problems, opportunities and directives
           The important tasks of PI (preliminary investigation), is to establish
     an initial baseline of the problems, opportunities or directives that triggered
     the project. Also to consider the percieved constraints (budget, deadlines, 
     and technology)
     The task is headed by senior systems analyst. The deliverable to this task is
     the `Problem Statement`.

     Result
     Output       |  Problem Statement   |  Poblem Opportunity
                  |                      |

m1. A sample document of the Problem Statement is expressed in the following term. 
    List and explain?
Ans: 1. Urgency:    time frame for the problem to be solved
     2. Visibility: to what degree would the solution or new system be visible to 
                    customers or management
     3. Benefits:   how much would the solution increase in annual revenue or 
                    reduce in annual costs.
     4. Priority:   Based on what is provided what are the priorities for each 
                    problem opportunity or directive.
                    If budget schedule becomes a problem, these priorities will
                    help to adjust the project scope
     5. Possible Solutions: At this stage possible solutions are best expressed in
        a) leave well enough alone
        b) A quick fix
        c) A simple-to-moderate enhancement of the existing System
        d) Redesign the existing Sstem
        e) Design a new System


1.2 Negotiate Scope

n. What is Scope?
Ans: Scope defines the boundary of a project. Those aspects of the business that 
     will not be included.

n1. Scope can change during the project. True or False?
Ans: 	True

n2. The initial Project Plan must establish the Preliminary Scope. True or False?
Ans: True

n3. Who leads the task?
Ans: A System Analyst or the Project Manager

n4. The Scope can be defined easily in the forms of. List?
Ans: Data: 
       What type of DATA describes the System being sudied 
       e.g 
       Sales Information system may require data about things such as Customers, 
       orders, products and sales representations

     Business Process:
       What business processes are included in the System being studied
       e.g. Order entry, Order Management, Custormer relationship management

     Interface:
       How must the interface look with users, locations and other Systems
       e.g Customers, Sales representative, Sales Clerks, regional Sales offers etc.



1.3 Access Project Worth

o. This is where we answer the question?
Ans: "Is this project worth Looking at?"

o1. Give me any type of question that you think is relevant to ask in order to 
    decide if the project is worth looking at?
Ans: Will solving the problem, exploiting opportunities or fulfilling directives
     return enough value to offset the costs that we will incure to develop this
     System? - At this point the project can be approved or cancelled and project 
     Scope can be negotiated. e.g Payroll System



1.4 Plan the Project

p. If the project has been approved and deemed worthy to continue, we can then ___?
Ans: Plan the project in depth

p1. What plan do we perfom next to schedule and assign resources for the entire 
   project?
Ans: A Preliminary Master Plan (or Baseline plan)



1.5 Present The Project Plan

q. How does "Presenting the Project Plan" work?
Ans: In most organizations, there are more potential projects than resources to 
     staff and fund those projects.
     Most times, the project in question must be presented and defended to the 
     steering committee for approval.

q1. Who are the Steering Committee?
Ans: A Steering body is a committee of executive business and systems managers that
     studies and prioritizes competing project proposals to determine which project
     will return the most value to the organization and thus should be approved for
     continued System Development.

q2. With or without steering commitee, there is always the need to present for the
    launch of the project and communicate the project goals, and schedule to the 
    entire buisness community. True or False?
Ans: True

q3. The project may be terminated if not endorsed. But if it recieves the blessing
    of the system owners and the steering comittee. What happens?
Ans: The Project can then proceed to the problem Analysis State





SUMMARY

Preliminary Investigation

A. List problems, opportunities and directives
B. Negotiate preliminary scope
C. Access project worth
D. Plan the project
E. Present the Project and Plan


A. List problems, opportunities and directives
- Establish an initial baseline of the problem
- Consider perceived constraints (budget, deadline, technology)
- Headed by the System Analyst
=> Problem Statement
   Expressed in Urgency, benefits, priority, possible solution (check Question m1)


B. Negotiate preliminary scope
- Scope defines the boundary of the Project
- Scope can change - but preliminary scope must be established
- headed by Senior Analyst
- Scope is defined in form of Data, Business process, Interface
  Data:
    What type of data are we talking about? School info system may require data about
    studenst, staff, etc.
  Business process: 
    What business process are included - Order entry, etc
  Interface:
    Locations of regional officies


C. Access the Project Worth
- Questions like - "Is this project worth looking at"
- Will the project return enough value to offset the incured costs?
The project can be cancelled, or scope negotiated


D. Plan the Project
- Once approved, proceed to plan the project.
- Preliminary master plan - includes schedules, resolve assignment to use project
  management software


E. Present the Project Plan
- The project must be presented and defended to the steering comittee.

A Steering body is a committee of executive business and systems managers that 
studies and prioritizes competing project proposals to determine which project will 
return the most value to the organization

=> Presentation is Important
Project may be terminated if not endorsed - But if it secures the blessing of the 
System owners and Steering Comittee, the project can then proceed




















Lecture 4


THE PROBLEM ANALYSIS PHASE

1. What is the statement that descibes the Problem Analysis phase?
Ans: "Don't try to fix it unless you understand it"

b. What is this phase about?
Ans: This phase provides the analyst with a more thorouht understanding of the 
     problem, opportunity and or directives that triggered the project

c. What are the kinda questions answered by this phase?
Ans: - "Are the problems really worth solving?"
     - "Is the new System worth building?"

d. This phase is also known as the _______ phase?
Ans: Study

e. What is the Goal of the Problem Analysis Phase?
Ans: The goal of this phase is to study and understand the problem domain well 
     enough to thouroghly analyze the problem, opportunities and constraints

f. Problem Analysis Tasks?
Ans: 2.1. Study the problem domain
     2.2. Analye problems and opportunities
     2.3. (Optional) Analyze business process
     2.4. Establish System empowerment objective
     2.5. Update project plan
     2.6. Present findings and recomendations


2.1. Study The Problem Domain

g. Discuss the Study of the Problem Domain?
Ans: During the problem analysis phase, the team initially attempts to learn about 
     the Current System.
     Each System owner, user and analyst brings a different level of understanding 
     to the System - different detail, different vocabulary, different perception 
     and different opinions. A well conducted study can prove revealing to all 
     parties, including the systems own management and users. It is therefore 
     important to study the domain where the problem exist

h. Who leads this task and who facilitates it?
Ans: The Project Manager leads the task and the Systems analyst facilitates it

i. What are the deliverable of this task?
Ans: An understanding of the Problem Domain and business vocabulary.

j. What ever is understood should at always be _________?
Ans: Documented

k. What should the Document Include?
Ans: Data: 
     - List all the things about which the System currently stores data(in files, 
       database, form, etc). Define each thing in business terms. 
       e.g 
       "An order is a business transaction in which a customer requests to purchase 
       a product"
     - Could also list all the requests currently produced by the current system 
       and their purpose
       e.g variation report
   
     Process:
       Define each business event fro which a business response(process) is 
       currently implemented. 
       e.g
       "A customer places a new order" or
       "A customer requests changes to a previously placed order" or 
       "A customer cancels an order"

     Interfaces:
       Define all the locations that the current system serves and all the users at
       each location.
       e.g
       The system is currently used at our Regional Offices in West Africa, East 
       Africa and South Africa.
       - Each regional sales office has a sales manager, assistant sales manager, & 
         Administrative assistant
       - To Sales representatives whao upload orders and other transactions online

       Extra:
       Another facet of interface is System Interfaces - this are interfaces that
       currently exist between the current information system and other information
       systems and other information systems. This can be listed by the System 
       Information Staff


Documentation
- Data: A 1 page data model for establishing business vocabulary and rules
- Process: A 1 or 2 page functional decomposition diagram should prove sufficient
           to get a feel of the current system
- Interface: A 1 page or use-case diagrams are very useful for illustrating the 
             System's inputs and outpust with other business units and systems


l. Define the Fact-Finding Technique?
Ans: these are useful techniques used in finding about casting system/joint
     repearing* planning* technique/ability to clearly communicate back to the users
     What you have learned about a System is equally important


Task 2.2 Analyze Problem and opportunities

m. Discuss the "Analyze Problem and opportunities" task?
Ans: we use the cause-and-effect analysis technique to study and determine these 
     causes and effects on the System


Task 2.3 Analyse Buisiness Process

n. Discuss the "Analyse Buisiness Process" task?
Ans: - Keep focus on the process and not the people, because the owners of the 
       System and users can become dependencies about their existing business
       processes
     - The deliverable: Bigger picture of a form of Data flow diagram which shows
       a) The volume of data flowing through the processes
       b) The response times of each process.
       c) Delays and bottlenecks etc..


Task 2.4 Establish System Empowerment

o. Discuss "Establish System empowerment objective" task?
Ans: Given our understanding of the current system's scope, problem and 
     opportunities we can establish System Improvement objectives:
     - Establish a criteria to which any improvements to the system will be measured
       and also identify any constraints that may limit flexibility in achieving 
       the improvement.
       e.g 
       Decrease by 50% the time spent required in payroll production
       e.x of constraints
       - Schedules: The new system must be operatives by April 15
       - cost:      Should not exceed 250,000
       - Technology:Must be online
       - Policy:    "Policy"


Task 2.5 Update the Project Plan

Task 2.6 Present Findings and Recommendations

p. Discuss "Present Findings and Recommendations" task?
Ans: A formal business report and business presentation to the community. At this
     point, the project can be authorized to continue, 'Adjust scope, cost, 
     schedules or cancel'. The project due to lack of resources or realization of
     benefits or the new system are not likely to exceed the costs

















Lecture 5


PAGE 45 - 60

1. What is Fact-finding?
Ans: these are specific methods for finding information of the system

b. During your Fact-finding exercise. You will usually come across or analyze
   sensitive information. How do you handle those when it happens?
Ans: - Protect security & Privacy of any facts or data
     - Do not discuss sensitive issues in public
     - Do not be careless. Your notes, documents should be kept safe

c. Give me an example of sensitive inforamtion?
Ans: Employee profile showing his/her salaries, permance history, medical history 
     or even career plans 

d. What Fact-Finding Methods are available?
Ans: - Sampling of existing documentation, forms and databases
     - Research and site visits
     - Observation of the Work Environment
     - Questionnaires
     - Interviews
     - Prototyping
     - Joint requirements planning

     An analyst usually applies several of these techniques during a single systems
     project.


A. Sampling of existing documentation, forms and databases

e. What is Requirements Validation?
Ans: It is the checkin of the requirements definition document for accuracy, 
     completeness, consistency, and conformance to standards

f. When is the Requirements validation done?
Ans: When the final draft of the requirements definition of the document after all
     input have been solicited from the system owners and users.
a
g. Why is Requirements Validation needed?
Ans: It's for the systems analyst to ensure the requirements are written correctly

h. List some errors the system analyst migh find?
Ans: - System models that contain errors
     - Grammar errors
     - Requirements that conflict with each other
     - poorly worded requirements
     - lack of agreement to quality standards required for the document

i. Studies show that as much as 50% or more of the time requirements will change
   before the system is put into production?
Ans: True

j. ___________ is the process of managing change to requirements?
Ans: Requirements Management

k. Requirements management encompases the policies procedures and processes that
   govern how change to requirements are handled?
Ans: True

l. A good analysts always gets facts first form _______________ rather than _____?
Ans: Existing documentations rather than from people

m. An analyst also wants to study the Business Function. Such as?
Ans: - Company's mission
     - Formal Objectives
     - Policy manuals
     - Standard Operation Procedures (SOP)
     - e.t.c

n. Because it would be impractical to study every occurrence of every form or 
   record in a file or database, systems analyst normally use _____________?
Ans: Sampling Techniques

o. What is Sampling?
Ans: its the process of collecting a representative sample of documents, forms, and
     records

p. But what does representative mean?
Ans: basically the systems analyst wants to sample enough forms to cover up for the
     full nature and complexitiy of the rest of the form


B. Research and site visits

2. Discuss the "Research and site visits" fact-finding technique?
Ans: In this technique, we thoroughly research the problem domain. Most problems 
     are not unique and have been solved before. Organizations often contact or
     perform site visits at companies they know have experienced similar problems.
     If these companies are willing to share.

     e.g 
     Just like the time Peter Obi went to Egypt to check out how they are able
     to produce 24 Hours of light everyday. Most problems are not unique and have
     been solved before

b. What are some other ways we can find solved similar problems?
Ans: - Computer trade journals
     - Reference books are also good
     - Software packages may already exist to solve your problem



C. Research and site visits

3. Observation is an effective data-collection technique for obtaining an 
   understanding of a system. True or False?
Ans: True

b. What is Observation?
Ans: Observation is a fact-finding technique wherein the systems analyst either
     participates in or watches a person perform activities to learn about the 
     system.

c. This technique is often used when?
Ans: Validity of data collected through other methods is in question ? or when it's
     too complex

d. Observation can be a very useful technique if you have the ability to?
Ans: Observe thoroughly and accurately

e. What are the Advantages?
Ans: - Data gathered using Observation are highly reliable
     - Complex tasks are sometimes difficult to clearly explain. Through 
       Observation systems analyst can identify tasks that have been missed or 
       inaccurately described
     - Observation is not expensive compared to other fact-finding techniques
     - it allows the systems analyst to do work mesurements

f. What are the Disadvantages?
Ans: - people are uncomfortable when watched
     - time of observation might not involve the level of difficulty or volume 
       normally experienced
     - System activities may take place at odd times causing a scheduling 
       inconvenience for the systems analyst
     - The tasks being observed are subject to interrupt
     - People may let you see what they want you to see

g. What are the times most appropriate to make observations?
Ans: Low, Normal and Peak periods of operations


h. What is Work Sampling?
Ans: it is a fact-finding technique that involves a large number of observations 
     taken at random intervals

i. List some guidelins for Sampling?
Ans: - Keep a low profile
     - take notes during observation or immediately after
     - review observation notes with appropriate individuals
     - don't interrupt the individuals being observed
     - don't focus heavily on trivial activities
     - don't make assumptions

j. Wha is the most effective way to perform observation?
Ans: Living the System

k. What happens in Living the System Observation?
Ans: System analyst actively performs the role of the user being observed for a 
     short time



D. Questionnaires

4. What are Questionnaires?
Ans: These are special-purpose documents that allow the analyst to collect 
     information and opinions from respondents

b. The use of questionnaires has been heavily criticized and is often avoided by
   systems analysts. True or False?
Ans: True

c. The reason for the critisim is that people using questionnaries don't understand
   the pros and cons?
Ans: True

d. What are the Advantages?
Ans: - They can be answered quickly
     - They are not expensive
     - They allow respondents to remain anonymous
     - Responses can be tabulated and analyzed quickly

e. What are the Disadvantages?
Ans: - Number of respondents are often low
     - No guarantee an individual will answer or expand on all the questions
     - Questionnaires tend to be inflexible
     - Impossible to analyze respondent's body language
     - Unable to clarify an incomplete answer to any question
     - Good questionnaires are difficult to prepare

f. What are the 2 types of Questionnaires?
Ans: 1. Free-format  questionnaires
     2. Fixed-format questionnaires

g. Explain the 2 types of Questionnaires?
Ans: Free-format questionnaires:
        Offers the respondent greater latitiude in the answer. A question is asked,
     and the respondent records the answer in the space provided after the question

     Fixed-format questionnaires:
        Offers the respondent questions that require selection of predefined 
     responses
     e.g 
     What is your favourite sport?
     a) Football
     b) Basketball
     c) Ufc
     d) American Football



E. Interviews

5. The use of personal interview is generally recognized as the most important and
   most often used fact-finding technique. True or Yes?
Ans: True

b. What are Interviews?
Ans: these are fact-finding techniques whereby the systems analysts collects 
     information from individuals through face-to-face interaction

c. An interviewer must have good human relation skills. True or False?
Ans: True

d. What are the Advantages?
Ans: - Opportunity of the interviewer (or systems analyst) to motivate the 
       interviewee to respond freely and openly to questions.
     - allows the interviewer probe for more feedback from the interviewee
     - allows interviewer the opportunity to adapt or reword questions foreach individuals
     - allows the interviewer to observe the interviewee's body language

e. What are the Disadvantages?
Ans: - Time consuming and costly
     - Success of interviews is highly dependent on the system analysts human 
       relation skills
     - may be impossible due to location of interviewee

f. What are the 2 types of Interviews?
Ans: Structured and Unstructured Interviews

g. Explain both types of Interviews?
Ans: Unstructured Interviews
        these are conducted with only a general goal or subject in mind and with
     very few, if any, specific questions. They depend on the interviewee to directe
     the conversation. This type of interview frequently gets off track
   
     Structured Interviews
        the interviewer usually has a specific set of questions to ask the interviewee.
 
h. How does one Conduct a Successful Interview?
Ans: I.   Selecting appropriate individuals to interview
     II.  Preparing extensively
     III. Conducting the interview properly
     IV.  Following up on the interview


I. Selecting approriate individuals to interview
i. How does one select an Interviewee?
Ans: - Use organizational chart
     - Make appointments
     - Get supervisors permission
     - Make sure a location is available

II. Preparing Extensively
j. How does one prepare for the Interview?
Ans: - The interviewee is able to detect an unprepared interviewer and may resent 
       the lack of preparations. Therefore the interview should prepare properly
     - The interviewee should be notified about the subject of the interview
     - The systems analyst should prepare an interview guide

k. What is an Interview Guide?
Ans: A list of specific questions the interviewer will ask the interviewee

l. Questions should be carefully choosen. Standard ones begin with?
Ans: Who, What, When, Where, Why and how much

m. What are the types of questions to avoid?
Ans: Loaded  questions
     Leading questions
     Baised  questions

III. Conduct the Interview
n. An acutal interview can be characterized into 3 phases. Name them?
Ans: The Openning, Body and Conclusion

o. Explain these 3 phases?
Ans: 1. The Openning:
           used to influence and motivate the interviewee to participate and 
        communicate by establishing an ideal environment
     2. The Body:
           this is the most time-consuming phase. This is where you obtain the 
        interviewee's responses to your list of questions
     3. The Conclusion:
           this is where the interviewer expresses their appreciation and provide
        answers to any questions posed by the interviewee. This phase is important
        to maintain trust with the interviewee

p. State the Do's and Don'ts in an interview
Ans: Do
     - Be courteous
     - Listen carefully
     - Maintain control
     - Probe
     - Observe mannerisms and nonverbal communication
     - Be patient
     - Keep interviewee at ease
     - Maintain self-control

     Avoid
     - Continuing an interview unnecessarily
     - Assuming an answer is leading nowhere
     - Revealing verbal and nonverbal clues
     - Using jargon
     - Revealing your personal biases
     - Talking instead of listening
     - Assuming anything about the topic and the interviewee
     - Tape recording - a sign of poor listening skills

IV. Follow Up on the Interview
q. How does an interwer follow up on the interview?
Ans: The interviewer should send the interviewee a memo that summarizes the interview.
     This memo should remind the interviewees of their contributions to the project
     and allow them to clarify any misinterpretations

r. To conduct a successful interview you must distinguish between hearing & 
   listening. True or False?
Ans: True

s. What is Body Language?
Ans: it is all the nonverbal information thta we all communicate and are usually 
     unaware of.

t. Research has determined a startling fact-- of a person's total feelings, only 7%
   are communicated verbally(in words), 38% are communicated by the tone of the 
   voice used, and 55% are communicated by facial and body expressions. If you 
   listen only to someone's words, you are missing the most of what that person is
   saying. True or False?
Ans: True

u. What are the 3 aspects of the body language do we want to focus on?
Ans: facial disclosure, eye contact and posture

v. Talk about these 3 aspects of body language?
Ans: 1. Facial Disclosure:
           You can sometimes understand how people feel by watching the expressions 
        on their faces. Many common emotions have easily recognizable facial 
        expressions associated with them. However the face is one of the most 
        controlled parts of the body. Some people who know this are very good at
        controlling their expression

     2. Eye Contact:
           This is the least controlled part of the face. Have you ever spoken to 
        someone who will not look directly at you? How did it make you feel? A 
        continual lack of eye contact may indicate uncertainty.

     3. Posture:
           This is the least controlled aspect of the body. Body postures holds a
        wealth of information for the astute analyst. A good analyst would watch the
        audience for changes in posture that could indicate anxiety, disagreement, 
        or boredom.

w. Complete the statement. If eyese are "the window to the soul" _____________?
Ans: be sure to search for any informations they may provide

x. What are Proxemics?
Ans: it is the relationship between people and the space around them.

y. People are very teritorial about their space. Observe where your classmates sit
   in a course that does not have assigned seats for example. A good analyst is 
   aware of four spatial zones. Name them?
Ans: Intimate Zone - closer than 1.5 feet
     Personal Zone - form 1.5 - 4 feet
     Social Zone   - from 4   - 12 feet
     Public zone   - beyond 12 feet

     certain types of communications occur only in some of these zones.



F. Prototyping

6. What is Discovery prototyping?
Ans: it is the act of building a small-scale, representative (or working model) of
     the users' requirements to discover or verify those requirements

b. What are some Advantages?
Ans: - Allows users and developers to experiment with the software and develop an 
       understanding of how the system might work
     - Aids in deterining the feasibility and usefulness of the System before high
       development costs are incurred.
     - Serves as a training mechanism for users

...



G. Joint Requirements Planning

















Lecture 6


1. What is Feasibility Study?
Ans: it is the measure of how beneficial or practical the development of an 
     information system will be to an organisation

b. What is Feasibility Analysis?
Ans: It is the process by which feasibility is measured

c. In analysis we Identify candidate solutions and make decisions. True or False?
Ans: True

d. What are the Four Test for Feasibility?
Ans: - operational 
     - technical 
     - schedule and 
     - economic feasibility

e. Discuss the Four test of Feasibility?
Ans: 1. Operational feasibility
        - is the problem worth solving? or will the solution to the problem work?
        - is the solution compliant with the laws and regulations?
        - will the solution fulfill the users requirement?
        - how will the solution change the users work environment
        - ow do users feel about the proposed solution?

     2. Technical Feasibility
        - is the proposed technology or solution practical?
        - do we currently posses the necessary technology?
        - do we posses the necessary technical expertise
        - does the staff have the technical expertise to design and build this solution?

     3. Schedule Feasibility
        - Given our technical expertise are the project deadlines reasonable?
        or
        - can the solution be designed and implimented within the given timeframe?

     4. Economic Feasibility
        - How much will the systems cost?
        - What benefits will the system provide?
          - tangible benefits
          - intangible benefits
        - Is the proposed system cost-effective?


f. List some cost-benefit analysis techniques
Ans: - Break-even analysis
     - Cashflow analysis
     - Return on Investment analysis
     - Net present value (NPV)

 










DONE ✅





