CMP 309 Exam Prep 


Lecture 7 (Lecturers Last Note)


System Design Phase

1a. What is the Information System Design Phase?
Ans: Information System design are those tasks that focus on the specification of a
     detailed computer-based solution - (Physical design)

b. What is Application architecture?
Ans: it describes the pattern and techniques used to design ... an application

Tasks 5.1

c. List all the tasks involved involved in Tasks 5.1
Ans: 5.1 Application Architecture (defines the technologies to be used)
     5.2 Design the Systems Database
     5.3 Design the systems interface (Input Screen)
     5.4 Package design specification (to guide the programmer in implementation)
     5.5 Update project plan


System Construction / Implementation

d. What is System Construction?
Ans: It is the development, installation and testing of system components

e. What is System Implementation?
Ans: It is the delivery of that system into production (meaning day-to-day operations)

f. What is the purpose of this phase?
Ans: it is to develop and test a functional system that fulfils business and design
     requirements and to also implement the interfaces between the new system and 
     the existing production systems

g. ________ is generally the major aspect of this phase?
Ans: Programming

h. Discuss the Tasks involved?
Ans: 6.1 Build and test network (if necessary)
         - in many cases new systems are built around existing networks - if so 
           skip this task else you must implement the network architecture
         - the task is performed by - network administrator; or a network designer
     6.2 Build and Test Databases
         - this is done by a database specialist
         - the input to this task are the database schemas specified during the design
         - final product, should be the populated database
     6.3 Install and Test New Software packages (if necessary)
         - this involves all the stakeholders
           There are 3 levels of testing
           a) Stub testing: 
                is the test perfomed on events or modules of the program. In other 
              words it is the testing of an isolated subset of the program.
           b) Unit or Program testing:
                is the testing of an entire program. In other words its a test where
              by all the events or modules that have been coded and stub tested for 
              a program are tested as an integrated unit
           c) Systems testing:
                Ensures that application programs written and tested in isolation
              work properly when they are integrated into the total program


i. Once the system test is completed and successful. What is next?
Ans: We can proceed to the implementation of the System






The Implementation Phase

2. What happens in the implementation phase?
Ans: here the new system is delivered into operations

b. What are the Tasks involved in this phase?
Ans: 7.1 Conduct System Test:
         - the input to this phase is the new system with observation from the 
           previous phase (if any)
     7.2 Prepare a Conversion Plan
         - once a successful system test has been completed, we can begin 
           preparations to place the new system into operation
         - the plan include => databases to be installed
         - end user to any and documentation
         - strategy for converting from the old system to the new system

         This is mostly done by the project manager

C. Types of Conversion plan may include the following. List all?
Ans: i) Abrupt cut-over
           the old system is terminated and the new system is placed into operations
           - this is a high-risk approach because their may still be major problems
             that won't be uncoverd until the system has been in operations for at 
             least one business period

     ii) Parallel Conversion
           both the old and the new systems are operated for sometime period. This 
           ensures that all major problems in the new System gets solved before the
           old system is discarded. The cut-over may be abrupt, or gradual as 
           portions of the new systems are deemed adequate
           Advantage and disadvantage
           - This strategy minimizes the risk of major flaws in the new system 
           - Sadly, the cost of running the two systems concurrently may be high
           
     iii) Location Conversion
           when the same system would be used in numerous geo locations, it is 
           converted in one location first, when it is tested and trusted then it
           will be deployed to the other locations

     iv) Staged Conversion
           this is based on the version concept introduced earlier. Each version of
         the new system is converted as it is developed

d. 
      






























